<h2>Introduction</h2>

<p>If you happen to have read another book about
Christopher Robin, you may remember that he
once had a swan (or the swan had Christopher
Robin, I don't know which) and that he used to
call this swan Pooh. That was a long time ago,
and when we said good-bye, we took the name with
us, as we didn't think the swan would want it any
more. Well, when Edward Bear said that he would
like an exciting name all to himself, Christopher
Robin said at once, without stopping to think, that
he was Winnie-the-Pooh. And he was. So, as I
have explained the Pooh part, I will now explain
the rest of it.</p>

<p>You can't be in London for long without going to
the Zoo. There are some people who begin the Zoo
at the beginning, called WAYIN, and walk as
quickly as they can past every cage until they get
to the one called WAYOUT, but the nicest people
go straight to the animal they love the most, and
stay there. So when Christopher Robin goes to the
Zoo, he goes to where the Polar Bears are, and he
whispers something to the third keeper from the
left, and doors are unlocked, and we wander through
dark passages and up steep stairs, until at last we
come to the special cage, and the cage is opened,

and out trots something brown and furry, and with
a happy cry of "Oh, Bear!" Christopher Robin
rushes into its arms. Now this bear's name is
Winnie, which shows what a good name for bears
it is, but the funny thing is that we can't remember
whether Winnie is called after Pooh, or Pooh after
Winnie. We did know once, but we have forgotten.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>I had written as far as this when Piglet looked up
and said in his squeaky voice, "What about <span class='it'>Me</span>?"
"My dear Piglet," I said, "the whole book is about
you." "So it is about Pooh," he squeaked. You
see what it is. He is jealous because he thinks
Pooh is having a Grand Introduction all to himself.
Pooh is the favourite, of course, there's no denying
it, but Piglet comes in for a good many things which
Pooh misses; because you can't take Pooh to school
without everybody knowing it, but Piglet is so small
that he slips into a pocket, where it is very comforting
to feel him when you are not quite sure whether
twice seven is twelve or twenty-two. Sometimes he
slips out and has a good look in the ink-pot, and in
this way he has got more education than Pooh, but
Pooh doesn't mind. Some have brains, and some
haven't, he says, and there it is.</p>

<p>And now all the others are saying, "What about
<span class='it'>Us</span>?" So perhaps the best thing to do is to stop
writing Introductions and get on with the book.</p>

<p>A. A. M.</p>

<h2>CHAPTER I<br/> IN WHICH WE ARE INTRODUCED TO<br/> WINNIE-THE-POOH AND SOME BEES,<br/> AND THE STORIES BEGIN</h2>

<p>Here is Edward Bear, coming downstairs
now, bump, bump, bump, on the back of
his head, behind Christopher Robin. It is,
as far as he knows, the only way of coming downstairs,
but sometimes he feels that there really is
another way, if only he could stop bumping for a
moment and think of it. And then he feels that
perhaps there isn't. Anyhow, here he is at the
bottom, and ready to be introduced to you. Winnie-the-Pooh.</p>

<p>When I first heard his name, I said, just as you
are going to say, "But I thought he was a boy?"</p>

<p>"So did I," said Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"Then you can't call him Winnie?"</p>

<p>"I don't."</p>

<p>"But you said----"</p>

<p>"He's Winnie-ther-Pooh. Don't you know what
'<span class='it'>ther</span>' means?"</p>

<p>
"Ah, yes, now I do," I said quickly; and I hope
you do too, because it is all the explanation you
are going to get.</p>

<p>Sometimes Winnie-the-Pooh likes a game of
some sort when he comes downstairs, and sometimes
he likes to sit quietly in front of the fire
and listen to a story. This evening----</p>

<p>"What about a story?" said Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>What</span> about a story?" I said.</p>

<p>"Could you very sweetly tell Winnie-the-Pooh
one?"</p>

<p>"I suppose I could," I said. "What sort of
stories does he like?"</p>

<p>"About himself. Because he's <span class='it'>that</span> sort of Bear."</p>

<p>"Oh, I see."</p>

<p>"So could you very sweetly?"</p>

<p>"I'll try," I said.</p>

<p>So I tried.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>Once upon a time, a very long time ago now,
about last Friday, Winnie-the-Pooh lived in a forest
all by himself under the name of Sanders.</p>


<p>(<span class='it'>"What does 'under the name' mean?" asked
Christopher Robin.</span></p>

<p>"<span class='it'>It means he had the name over the door in gold
letters, and lived under it.</span>"</p>

<p><span class='it'>"Winnie-the-Pooh wasn't quite sure," said Christopher
Robin.</span></p>

<p><span class='it'>"Now I am," said a growly voice.</span></p>

<p><span class='it'>"Then I will go on," said I.</span>)</p>


<p>One day when he was out walking, he came to
an open place in the middle of the forest, and in the
middle of this place was a large oak-tree, and, from
the top of the tree, there came a loud buzzing-noise.</p>

<p>Winnie-the-Pooh sat down at the foot of the tree,
put his head between his paws and began to think.</p>

<p>First of all he said to himself: "That buzzing-noise
means something. You don't get a buzzing-noise
like that, just buzzing and buzzing, without
its meaning something. If there's a buzzing-noise,
somebody's making a buzzing-noise, and the
only reason for making a buzzing-noise that <span class='it'>I</span> know
of is because you're a bee."</p>

<p>Then he thought another long time,
and said: "And the only reason for
being a bee that I know of is making
honey."</p>

<p>And then he got up, and said: "And
the only reason for making honey is so
as <span class='it'>I</span> can eat it." So he began to climb
the tree.</p>

<div class='lgl' style=''> <!-- rend=';mr:0;' -->
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>He</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>climbed</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>and</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>he</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>climbed</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>and</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>he</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>climbed,</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>and</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>as</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>he</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>climbed</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>he</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>sang</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>a</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>little</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>song</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>to</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>himself.</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>It</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>went</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>like</p>
<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:0em;'>this:</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>Isn't it funny</p>
<p class='line0'>How a bear likes honey?</p>
<p class='line0'>Buzz! Buzz! Buzz!</p>
<p class='line0'>I wonder why he does?</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>
Then he climbed a little further .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and a
little further .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and then just a little further.
By that time he had thought of another song.</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>It's a very funny thought that, if Bears were Bees,</p>
<p class='line0'>They'd build their nests at the <span class='it'>bottom</span> of trees.</p>
<p class='line0'>And that being so (if the Bees were Bears),</p>
<p class='line0'>We shouldn't have to climb up all these stairs.</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>He was getting
rather tired by this
time, so that is why he
sang a Complaining
Song. He was nearly
there now, and if he
just stood on that
branch .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p><span class='it'>Crack!</span></p>

<p>"Oh, help!" said Pooh, as he dropped ten feet
on the branch below him.</p>

<p>
"If only I hadn't----" he said, as he bounced
twenty feet on to the next branch.</p>

<p>"You see, what I <span class='it'>meant</span> to do," he explained,
as he turned head-over-heels, and crashed on to
another branch thirty feet below, "what I <span class='it'>meant</span>
to do----"</p>

<p>"Of course, it <span class='it'>was</span> rather----" he admitted, as
he slithered very quickly through the next six
branches.</p>

<p>"It all comes, I suppose," he decided, as he said
good-bye to the last branch, spun round three times,
and flew gracefully into a gorse-bush, "it all comes
of <span class='it'>liking</span> honey so much. Oh, help!"</p>

<p>He crawled out of the gorse-bush, brushed the
prickles from his nose, and began to think again.
And the first person he thought of was Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>(<span class='it'>"Was that me?" said Christopher Robin in an
awed voice, hardly daring to believe it.</span></p>

<p>
"<span class='it'>That was you.</span>"</p>

<p><span class='it'>Christopher Robin said nothing, but his eyes got
larger and larger, and his face got pinker and
pinker.</span>)</p>

<p>So Winnie-the-Pooh went round to his friend
Christopher Robin, who lived behind a green door
in another part of the forest.</p>

<p>
"Good morning, Christopher Robin," he said.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Winnie-<span class='it'>ther</span>-Pooh," said you.</p>

<p>"I wonder if you've got such a thing as a balloon
about you?"</p>

<p>"A balloon?"</p>

<p>"Yes, I just said to myself coming along: 'I

wonder if Christopher Robin has such a thing as
a balloon about him?' I just said it to myself,
thinking of balloons, and wondering."</p>

<p>"What do you want a balloon for?" you said.</p>

<p>Winnie-the-Pooh looked round to see that nobody
was listening, put his paw to his mouth, and said in
a deep whisper: "<span class='it'>Honey!</span>"</p>

<p>"But you don't get honey with balloons!"</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>I</span> do," said Pooh.</p>

<p>Well, it just happened that you had been to a
party the day before at the house of your friend
Piglet, and you had balloons at the party. You
had had a big green balloon; and one of Rabbit's
relations had had a big blue one, and had left it
behind, being really too young to go to a party
at all; and so you had brought the green one <span class='it'>and</span>
the blue one home with you.</p>

<p>
"Which one would you like?" you asked Pooh.</p>

<p>He put his head between his paws and thought
very carefully.</p>

<p>"It's like this," he said. "When you go after
honey with a balloon, the great thing is not to let
the bees know you're coming. Now, if you have a
green balloon, they might think you were only part
of the tree, and not notice you, and, if you have a
blue balloon, they might think you were only part
of the sky, and not notice you, and the question is:
Which is most likely?"</p>

<p>"Wouldn't they notice <span class='it'>you</span> underneath the
balloon?" you asked.</p>

<p>"They might or they might not," said Winnie-the-Pooh.
"You never can tell with bees." He
thought for a moment and said: "I shall try to
look like a small black cloud. That will deceive
them."</p>

<p>"Then you had better have the blue balloon,"
you said; and so it was decided.</p>

<p>Well, you both went out with the blue balloon,
and you took your gun with you, just in case, as you
always did, and Winnie-the-Pooh went to a very
muddy place that he knew of, and rolled and rolled

until he was black all over; and then, when the
balloon was blown up as big as big, and you and
Pooh were both holding on to the string, you let
go suddenly, and Pooh Bear floated gracefully up
into the sky, and stayed there--level with the top
of the tree and about twenty feet away from it.</p>

<p>"Hooray!" you shouted.</p>

<p>"Isn't that fine?" shouted Winnie-the-Pooh down
to you. "What do I look like?"</p>

<p>"You look like a Bear holding on to a balloon,"
you said.</p>

<p>"Not," said Pooh anxiously, "--not like a small
black cloud in a blue sky?"</p>

<p>"Not very much."</p>

<p>"Ah, well, perhaps from up here it looks different.
And, as I say, you never can tell with bees."</p>

<p>There was no wind to blow him nearer to the
tree, so there he stayed. He could see the honey,
he could smell the honey, but he couldn't quite reach
the honey.</p>

<p>After a little while he called down to you.</p>

<p>"Christopher Robin!" he said in a loud whisper.</p>

<p>
"Hallo!"</p>

<p>"I think the bees <span class='it'>suspect</span> something!"</p>

<p>"What sort of thing?"</p>

<p>"I don't know. But something tells me that
they're <span class='it'>suspicious</span>!"</p>

<p>"Perhaps they think that you're after their
honey."</p>

<p>"It may be that. You never can tell with bees."</p>

<p>There was another little silence, and then he called
down to you again.</p>

<p>"Christopher Robin!"</p>

<p>"Yes?"</p>

<p>"Have you an umbrella in your house?"</p>

<p>"I think so."</p>

<p>"I wish you would bring it out here, and walk
up and down with it, and look up at me every now
and then, and say 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain.' I
think, if you did that, it would help the deception
which we are practising on these bees."</p>

<p>Well, you laughed to yourself, "Silly old Bear!"

but you didn't say it aloud because you were so
fond of him, and you went home for your umbrella.</p>

<p>"Oh, there you are!" called down Winnie-the-Pooh,
as soon as you got back to the tree. "I was
beginning to get anxious. I have discovered that
the bees are now definitely Suspicious."</p>

<p>"Shall I put my umbrella up?" you said.</p>

<p>"Yes, but wait a moment. We must be practical.
The important bee to deceive is the Queen Bee.
Can you see which is the Queen Bee from down
there?"</p>

<p>"No."</p>

<p>"A pity. Well, now, if you walk up and down
with your umbrella, saying, 'Tut-tut, it looks like
rain,' I shall do what I can by singing a little Cloud
Song, such as a cloud might sing.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Go!"</p>

<p>So, while you walked up and down and wondered

if it would rain, Winnie-the-Pooh sang this song:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>How sweet to be a Cloud</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;Floating in the Blue!</p>
<p class='line0'>Every little cloud</p>
<p class='line0'><span class='it'>Always</span> sings aloud.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>"How sweet to be a Cloud</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;Floating in the Blue!"</p>
<p class='line0'>It makes him very proud</p>
<p class='line0'>To be a little cloud.</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>The bees were still buzzing as suspiciously as
ever. Some of them, indeed, left their nests and

flew all round the cloud as it began the second verse
of this song, and one bee sat down on the nose of
the cloud for a moment, and then got up again.</p>

<p>"Christopher--<span class='it'>ow!</span>--Robin," called out the
cloud.</p>

<p>"Yes?"</p>

<p>"I have just been thinking, and I have come to
a very important decision. <span class='it'>These are the wrong
sort of bees.</span>"</p>

<p>"Are they?"</p>

<p>"Quite the wrong sort. So I should think they
would make the wrong sort of honey, shouldn't
you?"</p>

<p>"Would they?"</p>

<p>"Yes. So I think I shall come down."</p>

<p>"How?" asked you.</p>

<p>Winnie-the-Pooh hadn't thought about this. If
he let go of the string, he would fall--<span class='it'>bump</span>--and
he didn't like the idea of that. So he thought for
a long time, and then he said:</p>

<p>"Christopher Robin, you must shoot the balloon
with your gun. Have you got your gun?"</p>

<p>"Of course I have," you said. "But if I do that,
it will spoil the balloon," you said.</p>

<p>
"But if you <span class='it'>don't</span>," said Pooh, "I shall have to
let go, and that would spoil <span class='it'>me</span>."</p>

<p>When he put it like this, you saw how it was,
and you aimed very carefully at the balloon, and
fired.</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Ow!</span>" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Did I miss?" you asked.</p>

<p>"You didn't exactly <span class='it'>miss</span>," said Pooh, "but you
missed the <span class='it'>balloon</span>."</p>

<p>"I'm so sorry," you said, and you fired again,
and this time you hit the balloon, and the air came

slowly out, and Winnie-the-Pooh floated down to
the ground.</p>

<p>But his arms were so stiff from holding on to
the string of the balloon all that time that they
stayed up straight in the air for more than a week,
and whenever a fly came and settled on his nose
he had to blow it off. And I think--but I am
not sure--that <span class='it'>that</span> is why he was always called
Pooh.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>"Is that the end of the story?" asked Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>"That's the end of that one. There are others."</p>

<p>"About Pooh and Me?"</p>

<p>"And Piglet and Rabbit and all of you. Don't
you remember?"</p>

<p>"I do remember, and then when I try to remember,
I forget."</p>

<p>"That day when Pooh and Piglet tried to catch
the Heffalump----"</p>

<p>"They didn't catch it, did they?"</p>

<p>"No."</p>

<p>"Pooh couldn't, because he hasn't any brain. Did
<span class='it'>I</span> catch it?"</p>

<p>"Well, that comes into the story."</p>

<p>Christopher Robin nodded.</p>

<p>"I do remember," he said, "only Pooh doesn't
very well, so that's why he likes having it told to

him again. Because then it's a real story and not
just a remembering."</p>

<p>"That's just how <span class='it'>I</span> feel," I said.</p>

<p>Christopher Robin gave a deep sigh, picked his
Bear up by the leg, and walked off to the door,
trailing Pooh behind him. At the door he turned
and said, "Coming to see me have my bath?"</p>

<p>"I might," I said.</p>

<p>"I didn't hurt him when I shot him, did I?"</p>

<p>"Not a bit."</p>

<p>He nodded and went out, and in a moment I
heard Winnie-the-Pooh--<span class='it'>bump, bump, bump</span>--going
up the stairs behind him.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER II<br/> IN WHICH POOH GOES VISITING AND<br/> GETS INTO A TIGHT PLACE</h2>

<p>Edward Bear, known to his friends as
Winnie-the-Pooh, or Pooh for short, was
walking through the forest one day, humming
proudly to himself. He had made up a little
hum that very morning, as he was doing his Stoutness
Exercises in front of the glass: <span class='it'>Tra-la-la, tra-la-la</span>,
as he stretched up as high as he could go, and
then <span class='it'>Tra-la-la, tra-la--oh, help!--la</span>, as he tried to
reach his toes. After breakfast he had said it over
and over to himself until he had learnt it off by
heart, and now he was humming it right through,
properly. It went like this:</p>


<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;<span class='it'>Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,</span></p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;<span class='it'>Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,</span></p>
<p class='line0'><span class='it'>Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum.</span></p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;<span class='it'>Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,</span></p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;<span class='it'>Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,</span></p>
<p class='line0'><span class='it'>Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um.</span></p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>
Well, he was humming this hum to himself, and
walking along gaily, wondering what everybody
else was doing, and what it felt like, being somebody
else, when suddenly he came to a sandy bank,
and in the bank was a large hole.</p>

<p>"Aha!" said Pooh. (<span class='it'>Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum.</span>)
"If I know anything about anything, that hole
means Rabbit," he said, "and Rabbit means Company,"
he said, "and Company means Food and
Listening-to-Me-Humming and such like. <span class='it'>Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um.</span>"</p>

<p>So he bent down, put his head into the hole, and
called out:</p>

<p>"Is anybody at home?"</p>

<p>There was a sudden scuffling noise from inside
the hole, and then silence.</p>

<p>"What I said was, 'Is anybody at home?'" called
out Pooh very loudly.</p>

<p>"No!" said a voice; and then added, "You
needn't shout so loud. I heard you quite well the
first time."</p>

<p>"Bother!" said Pooh. "Isn't there anybody here
at all?"</p>

<p>"Nobody."</p>

<p>Winnie-the-Pooh took his head out of the hole,
and thought for a little, and he thought to himself,
"There must be somebody there, because somebody
must have <span class='it'>said</span> 'Nobody.'" So he put his head
back in the hole, and said:</p>

<p>
"Hallo, Rabbit, isn't that you?"</p>

<p>"No," said Rabbit, in a different sort of voice
this time.</p>

<p>"But isn't that Rabbit's voice?"</p>

<p>"I don't <span class='it'>think</span> so," said Rabbit. "It isn't <span class='it'>meant</span>
to be."</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh.</p>

<p>He took his head out of the hole, and had another
think, and then he put it back, and said:</p>

<p>"Well, could you very kindly tell me where Rabbit
is?"</p>

<p>"He has gone to see his friend Pooh Bear, who
is a great friend of his."</p>

<p>"But this <span class='it'>is</span> Me!" said Bear, very much surprised.</p>

<p>"What sort of Me?"</p>

<p>"Pooh Bear."</p>

<p>"Are you sure?" said Rabbit, still more surprised.</p>

<p>"Quite, quite sure," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Oh, well, then, come in."</p>

<p>
So Pooh pushed and pushed and pushed his way
through the hole, and at last he got in.</p>

<p>"You were quite right," said Rabbit, looking at
him all over. "It <span class='it'>is</span> you. Glad to see you."</p>

<p>"Who did you think it was?"</p>

<p>"Well, I wasn't sure. You know how it is in
the Forest. One can't have <span class='it'>anybody</span> coming into
one's house. One has to be <span class='it'>careful</span>. What about
a mouthful of something?"</p>

<p>Pooh always liked a little something at eleven
o'clock in the morning, and he was very glad to see
Rabbit getting out the plates and mugs; and when
Rabbit said, "Honey or condensed milk with your
bread?" he was so excited that he said, "Both,"
and then, so as not to seem greedy, he added, "But
don't bother about the bread, please." And for a
long time after that he said nothing .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. until at
last, humming to himself in a rather sticky voice,
he got up, shook Rabbit lovingly by the paw, and
said that he must be going on.</p>

<p>"Must you?" said Rabbit politely.</p>

<p>"Well," said Pooh, "I could stay a little longer
if it--if you----" and he tried very hard to look in
the direction of the larder.</p>

<p>"As a matter of fact," said Rabbit, "I was going
out myself directly."</p>

<p>"Oh, well, then, I'll be going on. Good-bye."</p>

<p>"Well, good-bye, if you're sure you won't have
any more."</p>

<p>
"<span class='it'>Is</span> there any more?" asked Pooh quickly.</p>

<p>Rabbit took the covers off the dishes, and said,
"No, there wasn't."</p>

<p>"I thought not," said Pooh, nodding to himself.
"Well, good-bye. I must be going on."</p>

<p>So he started to climb out of the hole. He pulled
with his front paws, and pushed with his back
paws, and in a little while his nose was out in the
open again .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and then his ears .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and then
his front paws .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and then his shoulders .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
and then----</p>

<p>"Oh, help!" said Pooh. "I'd better go back."</p>

<p>"Oh, bother!" said Pooh. "I shall have to go
on."</p>

<p>"I can't do either!" said Pooh. "Oh, help <span class='it'>and</span>
bother!"</p>

<p>Now by this time Rabbit wanted to go for a
walk too, and finding the front door full, he went

out by the back door, and came round to Pooh, and
looked at him.</p>

<p>"Hallo, are you stuck?" he asked.</p>

<p>"N-no," said Pooh carelessly. "Just resting and
thinking and humming to myself."</p>

<p>"Here, give us a paw."</p>

<p>Pooh Bear stretched out a paw, and Rabbit pulled
and pulled and pulled.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Ow!</span>" cried Pooh. "You're hurting!"</p>

<p>"The fact is," said Rabbit, "you're stuck."</p>

<p>"It all comes," said Pooh crossly, "of not having
front doors big enough."</p>

<p>"It all comes," said Rabbit sternly, "of eating

too much. I thought at the time," said Rabbit,
"only I didn't like to say anything," said Rabbit,
"that one of us was eating too much," said Rabbit,
"and I knew if wasn't <span class='it'>me</span>," he said. "Well,
well, I shall go and fetch Christopher Robin."</p>

<p>Christopher Robin lived at the other end of the
Forest, and when he came back with Rabbit, and
saw the front half of Pooh, he said, "Silly old
Bear," in such a loving voice that everybody felt
quite hopeful again.</p>

<p>"I was just beginning to think," said Bear,
sniffing slightly, "that Rabbit might never be able
to use his front door again. And I should <span class='it'>hate</span>
that," he said.</p>

<p>"So should I," said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"Use his front door again?" said Christopher
Robin. "Of course he'll use his front door again."</p>

<p>"Good," said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"If we can't pull you out, Pooh, we might push
you back."</p>

<p>Rabbit scratched his whiskers thoughtfully, and
pointed out that, when once Pooh was pushed
back, he was back, and of course nobody was more
glad to see Pooh than <span class='it'>he</span> was, still there it was,
some lived in trees and some lived underground,
and----</p>

<p>"You mean I'd <span class='it'>never</span> get out?" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"I mean," said Rabbit, "that having got <span class='it'>so</span> far,
it seems a pity to waste it."</p>

<p>
Christopher Robin nodded.</p>

<p>"Then there's only one thing to be done," he
said. "We shall have to wait for you to get thin
again."</p>

<p>"How long does getting thin take?" asked Pooh
anxiously.</p>

<p>"About a week, I should think."</p>

<p>"But I can't stay here for a <span class='it'>week</span>!"</p>

<p>"You can <span class='it'>stay</span> here all right, silly old Bear. It's
getting you out which is so difficult."</p>

<p>"We'll read to you," said Rabbit cheerfully.
"And I hope it won't snow," he added. "And
I say, old fellow, you're taking up a good
deal of room in my house--<span class='it'>do</span> you mind if I use
your back legs as a towel-horse? Because, I
mean, there they are--doing nothing--and it would
be very convenient just to hang the towels on
them."</p>

<p>"A week!" said Pooh gloomily. "<span class='it'>What about
meals?</span>"</p>

<p>"I'm afraid no meals," said Christopher Robin,
"because of getting thin quicker. But we <span class='it'>will</span> read
to you."</p>

<p>Bear began to sigh, and then found he couldn't
because he was so tightly stuck; and a tear rolled
down his eye, as he said:</p>

<p>"Then would you read a Sustaining Book, such
as would help and comfort a Wedged Bear in Great
Tightness?"</p>

<p>
So for a week Christopher Robin read that sort
of book at the North end of Pooh,
and Rabbit
hung his washing on the South end .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and in
between Bear felt himself getting slenderer and
slenderer. And at the end of the week Christopher
Robin said, "<span class='it'>Now!</span>"</p>

<p>
So he took hold of Pooh's
front paws and Rabbit took
hold of Christopher Robin,
and all Rabbit's friends and relations
took hold of Rabbit, and
they all pulled together.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>And for a long time Pooh
only said "<span class='it'>Ow!</span>" .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>And "<span class='it'>Oh!</span>" .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>And then, all of a sudden,
he said "<span class='it'>Pop!</span>" just as if a
cork were coming out of a
bottle.</p>

<p>
And Christopher Robin and
Rabbit and all Rabbit's friends
and relations went head-over-heels
backwards .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and on
the top of them came Winnie-the-Pooh--free!</p>

<p>So, with a nod of thanks
to his friends, he went on with
his walk through the forest,
humming proudly to himself.
But, Christopher Robin looked
after him lovingly, and said
to himself, "Silly old Bear!"</p>


<h2>CHAPTER III<br/> IN WHICH POOH AND PIGLET GO HUNTING<br/> AND NEARLY CATCH A WOOZLE</h2>

<p>The Piglet lived in a very grand house in the
middle of a beech-tree, and the beech-tree
was in the middle of the forest, and the Piglet
lived in the middle of the house. Next to his
house was a piece of broken board which had:
"TRESPASSERS W" on it. When Christopher
Robin asked the Piglet what it meant, he said it
was his grandfather's name, and had been in the
family for a long time, Christopher Robin said
you <span class='it'>couldn't</span> be called Trespassers W, and Piglet
said yes, you could, because his grandfather was,
and it was short for Trespassers Will, which was
short for Trespassers William. And his grandfather
had had two names in case he lost one--Trespassers
after an uncle, and William after Trespassers.</p>

<p>"I've got two names," said Christopher Robin
carelessly.</p>

<p>"Well, there you are, that proves it," said Piglet.</p>

<p>
One fine winter's day when Piglet was brushing
away the snow in front of his house, he happened
to look up, and there was Winnie-the-Pooh. Pooh
was walking round and round in a circle, thinking

of something else, and when Piglet called to him,
he just went on walking.</p>

<p>"Hallo!" said Piglet, "what are <span class='it'>you</span> doing?"</p>

<p>"Hunting," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Hunting what?"</p>

<p>"Tracking something," said Winnie-the-Pooh
very mysteriously.</p>

<p>"Tracking what?" said Piglet, coming closer.</p>

<p>"That's just what I ask myself. I ask myself,
What?"</p>

<p>"What do you think you'll answer?"</p>

<p>"I shall have to wait until I catch up with it,"
said Winnie-the-Pooh. "Now, look there." He
pointed to the ground in front of him. "What do
you see there?"</p>

<p>"Tracks," said Piglet. "Paw-marks." He gave
a little squeak of excitement. "Oh, Pooh! Do you
think it's a--a--a Woozle?"</p>

<p>
"It may be," said Pooh. "Sometimes it is, and
sometimes it isn't. You never can tell with paw-marks."</p>

<p>With these few words he went on tracking, and
Piglet, after watching him for a minute or two, ran
after him. Winnie-the-Pooh had come to a sudden
stop, and was bending over the tracks in a puzzled
sort of way.</p>

<p>"What's the matter?" asked Piglet.</p>

<p>"It's a very funny thing," said Bear, "but there
seem to be <span class='it'>two</span> animals now. This--whatever-it-was--has
been joined by another--whatever-it-is--and
the two of them are now proceeding in company.
Would you mind coming with me, Piglet, in
case they turn out to be Hostile Animals?"</p>

<p>Piglet scratched his ear in a nice sort of way, and
said that he had nothing to do until Friday, and
would be delighted to come, in case it really <span class='it'>was</span> a
Woozle.</p>

<p>"You mean, in case it really is two Woozles,"
said Winnie-the-Pooh, and Piglet said that anyhow
he had nothing to do until Friday. So off they
went together.</p>

<p>There was a small spinney of larch trees just
here, and it seemed as if the two Woozles, if that is
what they were, had been going round this spinney;
so round this spinney went Pooh and Piglet after
them; Piglet passing the time by telling Pooh what
his Grandfather Trespassers W had done to Remove

Stiffness after Tracking, and how his Grandfather
Trespassers W had suffered in his later years from
Shortness of Breath, and other matters of interest,
and Pooh wondering what a Grandfather was like,
and if perhaps this was Two Grandfathers they
were after now, and, if so, whether he would be
allowed to take one home and keep it, and what
Christopher Robin would say. And still the tracks
went on in front of them.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>Suddenly Winnie-the-Pooh stopped, and pointed
excitedly in front of him. "<span class='it'>Look!</span>"</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>What?</span>" said Piglet, with a jump. And then,
to show that he hadn't been frightened, he jumped
up and down once or twice more in an exercising
sort of way.</p>

<p>"The tracks!" said Pooh. "<span class='it'>A third animal has
joined the other two!</span>"</p>

<p>
"Pooh!" cried Piglet. "Do you think it is another
Woozle?"</p>

<p>"No," said Pooh, "because it makes different
marks. It is either Two Woozles and one, as it
might be, Wizzle, or Two, as it might be, Wizzles
and one, if so it is, Woozle. Let us continue to
follow them."</p>

<p>So they went on, feeling just a little anxious now,
in case the three animals in front of them were of
Hostile Intent. And Piglet wished very much that
his Grandfather T. W. were there, instead of elsewhere,
and Pooh thought how nice it would be if
they met Christopher Robin suddenly but quite accidentally,
and only because he liked Christopher
Robin so much. And then, all of a sudden, Winnie-the-Pooh
stopped again, and licked the tip of his
nose in a cooling manner, for he was feeling more
hot and anxious than ever in his life before. <span class='it'>There
were four animals in front of them!</span></p>

<p>"Do you see, Piglet? Look at their tracks!

Three, as it were, Woozles, and one, as it was,
Wizzle. <span class='it'>Another Woozle has joined them!</span>"</p>

<p>And so it seemed to be. There were the tracks;
crossing over each other here, getting muddled up
with each other there; but, quite plainly every now
and then, the tracks of four sets of paws.</p>

<p>"I <span class='it'>think</span>," said Piglet, when he had licked the
tip of his nose too, and found that it brought very
little comfort, "I <span class='it'>think</span> that I have just remembered
something. I have just remembered something
that I forgot to do yesterday and shan't be
able to do to-morrow. So I suppose I really ought
to go back and do it now."</p>

<p>"We'll do it this afternoon, and I'll come with
you," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"It isn't the sort of thing you can do in the
afternoon," said Piglet quickly. "It's a very particular
morning thing, that has to be done in the
morning, and, if possible, between the hours of----What
would you say the time was?"</p>

<p>"About twelve," said Winnie-the-Pooh, looking
at the sun.</p>

<p>"Between, as I was saying, the hours of twelve
and twelve five. So, really, dear old Pooh, if you'll
excuse me----<span class='it'>What's that?</span>"</p>

<p>Pooh looked up at the sky, and then, as he heard
the whistle again, he looked up into the branches of
a big oak-tree, and then he saw a friend of his.</p>

<p>"It's Christopher Robin," he said.</p>

<p>
"Ah, then you'll be all right," said Piglet.
"You'll be quite safe with <span class='it'>him</span>. Good-bye," and
he trotted off home as quickly as he could, very
glad to be Out of All Danger again.</p>

<p>Christopher Robin came slowly down his tree.</p>

<p>"Silly old Bear," he said, "what <span class='it'>were</span> you doing?
First you went round the spinney twice by yourself,
and then Piglet ran after you and you went round

again together, and then you were just going round
a fourth time----"</p>

<p>"Wait a moment," said Winnie-the-Pooh, holding
up his paw.</p>

<p>He sat down and thought, in the most thoughtful
way he could think. Then he fitted his paw into
one of the Tracks .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and then he scratched his
nose twice, and stood up.</p>

<p>"Yes," said Winnie-the-Pooh.</p>

<p>"I see now," said Winnie-the-Pooh.</p>

<p>"I have been Foolish and Deluded," said he, "and
I am a Bear of No Brain at All."</p>

<p>"You're the Best Bear in All the World," said
Christopher Robin soothingly.</p>

<p>"Am I?" said Pooh hopefully. And then he
brightened up suddenly.</p>

<p>"Anyhow," he said, "it is nearly Luncheon
Time."</p>

<p>So he went home for it.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER IV<br/> IN WHICH EEYORE LOSES A TAIL<br/> AND POOH FINDS ONE</h2>

<p>The Old Grey Donkey, Eeyore, stood by himself
in a thistly corner of the forest, his front
feet well apart, his head on one side, and
thought about things. Sometimes he thought sadly
to himself, "Why?" and sometimes he thought,
"Wherefore?" and sometimes he thought, "Inasmuch

as which?"--and sometimes he didn't quite
know what he <span class='it'>was</span> thinking about. So when
Winnie-the-Pooh came stumping along, Eeyore was
very glad to be able to stop thinking for a little,
in order to say "How do you do?" in a gloomy
manner to him.</p>

<p>"And how are you?" said Winnie-the-Pooh.</p>

<p>Eeyore shook his head from side to side.</p>

<p>"Not very how," he said. "I don't seem to have
felt at all how for a long time."</p>

<p>"Dear, dear," said Pooh, "I'm sorry about that.
Let's have a look at you."</p>

<p>So Eeyore stood there, gazing sadly at the ground,
and Winnie-the-Pooh walked all round him once.</p>

<p>"Why, what's happened to your tail?" he said in
surprise.</p>

<p>"What <span class='it'>has</span> happened to it?" said Eeyore.</p>

<p>"It isn't there!"</p>

<p>"Are you sure?"</p>

<p>
"Well, either a tail <span class='it'>is</span> there or it isn't there. You
can't make a mistake about it. And yours <span class='it'>isn't</span>
there!"</p>

<p>"Then what is?"</p>

<p>"Nothing."</p>

<p>"Let's have a look," said Eeyore, and he turned
slowly round to the place where his tail had been a
little while ago, and then, finding that he couldn't
catch it up, he turned round the other way, until he
came back to where he was at first, and then he put
his head down and looked between his front legs,
and at last he said, with a long, sad sigh, "I believe
you're right."</p>

<p>"Of course I'm right," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"That Accounts for a Good Deal," said Eeyore
gloomily. "It Explains Everything. No Wonder."</p>

<p>"You must have left it somewhere," said Winnie-the-Pooh.</p>

<p>"Somebody must have taken it," said Eeyore.
"How Like Them," he added, after a long silence.</p>

<p>
Pooh felt that he ought to say something helpful
about it, but didn't quite know what. So he decided
to do something helpful instead.</p>

<p>"Eeyore," he said solemnly, "I, Winnie-the-Pooh,
will find your tail for you."</p>

<p>"Thank you, Pooh," answered Eeyore. "You're
a real friend," said he. "Not like Some," he said.</p>

<p>So Winnie-the-Pooh went off to find Eeyore's tail.</p>

<p>It was a fine spring morning in the forest as he
started out. Little soft clouds played happily in
a blue sky, skipping from time to time in front of
the sun as if they had come to put it out, and then
sliding away suddenly so that the next might have
his turn. Through them and between them the sun
shone bravely; and a copse which had worn its firs
all the year round seemed old and dowdy now beside
the new green lace which the beeches had put on
so prettily. Through copse and spinney marched
Bear; down open slopes of gorse and heather,
over rocky beds of streams, up steep banks of
sandstone into the heather again; and so at last,
tired and hungry, to the Hundred Acre Wood. For
it was in the Hundred Acre Wood that Owl
lived.</p>

<p>"And if anyone knows anything about anything,"
said Bear to himself, "it's Owl who knows something
about something," he said, "or my name's not
Winnie-the-Pooh," he said. "Which it is," he
added. "So there you are."</p>

<p>
Owl lived at The Chestnuts, an old-world residence
of great charm, which was grander than anybody
else's, or seemed so to Bear, because it had
both a knocker <span class='it'>and</span> a bell-pull. Underneath the
knocker there was a notice which said:</p>

<p>PLES RING IF AN RNSER IS REQIRD.</p>

<p>Underneath the bell-pull there was a notice which
said:</p>

<p>PLEZ CNOKE IF AN RNSR IS NOT REQID.</p>

<p>These notices had been written by Christopher
Robin, who was the only one in the forest who could
spell; for Owl, wise though he was in many ways,
able to read and write and spell his own name
WOL, yet somehow went all to pieces over delicate
words like MEASLES and BUTTEREDTOAST.</p>

<p>Winnie-the-Pooh read the two notices very carefully,
first from left to right, and afterwards, in case
he had missed some of it, from right to left. Then,
to make quite sure, he knocked and pulled the
knocker, and he pulled and knocked the bell-rope,
and he called out in a very loud voice, "Owl! I
require an answer! It's Bear speaking." And the
door opened, and Owl looked out.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Pooh," he said. "How's things?"</p>

<p>"Terrible and Sad," said Pooh, "because Eeyore,
who is a friend of mine, has lost his tail. And he's
Moping about it. So could you very kindly tell me
how to find it for him?"</p>

<p>
"Well," said Owl, "the customary procedure in
such cases is as follows."</p>

<p>"What does Crustimoney Proseedcake mean?"
said Pooh. "For I am a Bear of Very Little Brain,
and long words Bother me."</p>

<p>"It means the Thing to Do."</p>

<p>"As long as it means that, I don't mind," said
Pooh humbly.</p>

<p>"The thing to do is as follows. First, Issue a
Reward. Then----"</p>

<p>"Just a moment," said Pooh, holding up his paw.
"<span class='it'>What</span> do we do to this--what you were saying?
You sneezed just as you were going to tell me."</p>

<p>"I <span class='it'>didn't</span> sneeze."</p>

<p>"Yes, you did, Owl."</p>

<p>"Excuse me, Pooh, I didn't. You can't sneeze
without knowing it."</p>

<p>"Well, you can't know it without something having
been sneezed."</p>

<p>"What I <span class='it'>said</span> was, 'First <span class='it'>Issue</span> a Reward'."</p>

<p>"You're doing it again," said Pooh sadly.</p>

<p>"A Reward!" said Owl very loudly. "We write
a notice to say that we will give a large something
to anybody who finds Eeyore's tail."</p>

<p>"I see, I see," said Pooh, nodding his head.
"Talking about large somethings," he went on
dreamily, "I generally have a small something about
now--about this time in the morning," and he
looked wistfully at the cupboard in the corner of

Owl's parlour; "just a mouthful of condensed milk
or whatnot, with perhaps a lick of honey----"</p>

<p>"Well, then," said Owl, "we write out this notice,
and we put it up all over the forest."</p>

<p>"A lick of honey," murmured Bear to himself,
"or--or not, as the case may be." And he gave a
deep sigh, and tried very hard to listen to what Owl
was saying.</p>

<p>But Owl went on and on, using longer and longer
words, until at last he came back to where he
started, and he explained that the person to write
out this notice was Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"It was he who wrote the ones on my front door
for me. Did you see them, Pooh?"</p>

<p>For some time now Pooh had been saying "Yes"
and "No" in turn, with his eyes shut, to all that
Owl was saying, and having said, "Yes, yes," last
time, he said "No, not at all," now, without really
knowing what Owl was talking about.</p>

<p>
"Didn't you see them?" said Owl, a little surprised.
"Come and look at them now."</p>

<p>So they went outside. And Pooh looked at the
knocker and the notice below it, and he looked at
the bell-rope and the notice below it, and the more
he looked at the bell-rope, the more he felt that he
had seen something like it, somewhere else, sometime
before.</p>

<p>"Handsome bell-rope, isn't it?" said Owl.</p>

<p>Pooh nodded.</p>

<p>"It reminds me of something," he said, "but I
can't think what. Where did you get it?"</p>

<p>"I just came across it in the Forest. It was
hanging over a bush, and I thought at first somebody
lived there, so I rang it, and nothing happened,
and then I rang it again very loudly, and it came off
in my hand, and as nobody seemed to want it, I
took it home, and----"</p>

<p>"Owl," said Pooh solemnly, "you made a mistake.
Somebody did want it."</p>

<p>"Who?"</p>

<p>"Eeyore. My dear friend Eeyore. He was--he
was fond of it."</p>

<p>"Fond of it?"</p>

<p>"Attached to it," said Winnie-the-Pooh sadly.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>So with these words he unhooked it, and carried
it back to Eeyore; and when Christopher Robin

had nailed it on in its right place again, Eeyore
frisked about the forest, waving his tail so happily
that Winnie-the-Pooh came over all funny, and had
to hurry home for a little snack of something to

sustain him. And, wiping his mouth half an hour
afterwards, he sang to himself proudly:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'><span class='it'>Who found the Tail?</span></p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;"I," said Pooh,</p>
<p class='line0'>"At a quarter to two</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;(Only it was quarter to eleven really),</p>
<p class='line0'><span class='it'>I</span> found the Tail!"</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->


<h2>CHAPTER V<br/> IN WHICH PIGLET MEETS A HEFFALUMP</h2>

<p>One day, when Christopher Robin and
Winnie-the-Pooh and Piglet were all talking
together, Christopher Robin finished the
mouthful he was eating and said carelessly: "I saw
a Heffalump to-day, Piglet."</p>

<p>"What was it doing?" asked Piglet.</p>

<p>"Just lumping along," said Christopher Robin.
"I don't think it saw <span class='it'>me</span>."</p>

<p>"I saw one once," said Piglet. "At least, I think
I did," he said. "Only perhaps it wasn't."</p>

<p>"So did I," said Pooh, wondering what a Heffalump
was like.</p>

<p>"You don't often see them," said Christopher
Robin carelessly.</p>

<p>"Not now," said Piglet.</p>

<p>"Not at this time of year," said Pooh.</p>

<p>Then they all talked about something else, until
it was time for Pooh and Piglet to go home together.
At first as they stumped along the path
which edged the Hundred Acre Wood, they didn't

say much to each other; but when they came to the
stream and had helped each other across the stepping
stones, and were able to walk side by side again
over the heather, they began to talk in a friendly
way about this and that, and Piglet said, "If you
see what I mean, Pooh," and Pooh said, "It's just
what I think myself, Piglet," and Piglet said, "But,
on the other hand, Pooh, we must remember," and
Pooh said, "Quite true, Piglet, although I had forgotten
it for the moment." And then, just as they
came to the Six Pine Trees, Pooh looked round to
see that nobody else was listening, and said in a
very solemn voice:</p>

<p>"Piglet, I have decided something."</p>

<p>"What have you decided, Pooh?"</p>

<p>"I have decided to catch a Heffalump."</p>

<p>Pooh nodded his head several times as he said

this, and waited for Piglet to say "How?" or
"Pooh, you couldn't!" or something helpful of
that sort, but Piglet said nothing. The fact was
Piglet was wishing that <span class='it'>he</span> had thought about it
first.</p>

<p>"I shall do it," said Pooh, after waiting a little
longer, "by means of a trap. And it must be a
Cunning Trap, so you will have to help me, Piglet."</p>

<p>"Pooh," said Piglet, feeling quite happy again
now, "I will." And then he said, "How shall we
do it?" and Pooh said, "That's just it. How?"
And then they sat down together to think it out.</p>

<p>Pooh's first idea was that they should dig a Very
Deep Pit, and then the Heffalump would come along
and fall into the Pit, and----</p>

<p>"Why?" said Piglet.</p>

<p>"Why what?" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Why would he fall in?"</p>

<p>Pooh rubbed his nose with his paw, and said that
the Heffalump might be walking along, humming a
little song, and looking up at the sky, wondering if
it would rain, and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep
Pit until he was half-way down, when it would be
too late.</p>

<p>Piglet said that this was a very good Trap, but
supposing it were raining already?</p>

<p>Pooh rubbed his nose again, and said that he
hadn't thought of that. And then he brightened
up, and said that, if it were raining already, the

Heffalump would be looking at the sky wondering
if it would <span class='it'>clear up</span>, and so he wouldn't see the Very
Deep Pit until he was half-way down.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. When
it would be too late.</p>

<p>Piglet said that, now that this point had been
explained, he thought it was a Cunning Trap.</p>

<p>Pooh was very proud when he heard this, and
he felt that the Heffalump was as good as caught
already, but there was just one other thing which
had to be thought about, and it was this. <span class='it'>Where
should they dig the Very Deep Pit?</span></p>

<p>Piglet said that the best place would be somewhere
where a Heffalump was, just before he fell
into it, only about a foot farther on.</p>

<p>"But then he would see us digging it," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Not if he was looking at the sky."</p>

<p>"He would Suspect," said Pooh, "if he happened
to look down." He thought for a long time
and then added sadly, "It isn't as easy as I thought.
I suppose that's why Heffalumps hardly <span class='it'>ever</span> get
caught."</p>

<p>"That must be it," said Piglet.</p>

<p>They sighed and got up; and when they had
taken a few gorse prickles out of themselves they
sat down again; and all the time Pooh was saying
to himself, "If only I could <span class='it'>think</span> of something!"
For he felt sure that a Very Clever Brain could
catch a Heffalump if only he knew the right way
to go about it.</p>

<p>
"Suppose," he said to Piglet, "<span class='it'>you</span> wanted to
catch <span class='it'>me</span>, how would you do it?"</p>

<p>"Well," said Piglet, "I should do it like this. I
should make a Trap, and I should put a Jar of
Honey in the Trap, and you would smell it, and
you would go in after it, and----"</p>

<p>"And I would go in after it," said Pooh excitedly,
"only very carefully so as not to hurt myself, and
I would get to the Jar of Honey, and I should lick
round the edges first of all, pretending that there
wasn't any more, you know, and then I should walk
away and think about it a little, and then I should
come back and start licking in the middle of the
jar, and then----"</p>

<p>"Yes, well never mind about that. There you
would be, and there I should catch you. Now the
first thing to think of is, What do Heffalumps like?
I should think acorns, shouldn't you? We'll get
a lot of----I say, wake up, Pooh!"</p>

<p>Pooh, who had gone into a happy dream, woke
up with a start, and said that Honey was a much
more trappy thing than Haycorns. Piglet didn't
think so; and they were just going to argue about
it, when Piglet remembered that, if they put acorns
in the Trap, <span class='it'>he</span> would have to find the acorns, but
if they put honey, then Pooh would have to give
up some of his own honey, so he said, "All right,
honey then," just as Pooh remembered it too, and
was going to say, "All right, haycorns."</p>

<p>
"Honey," said Piglet to himself in a thoughtful
way, as if it were now settled. "<span class='it'>I'll</span> dig the pit,
while <span class='it'>you</span> go and get the honey."</p>

<p>"Very well," said Pooh, and he stumped off.</p>

<p>As soon as he got home, he went to the larder;
and he stood on a chair, and took down a very
large jar of honey from the top shelf. It had
HUNNY written on it, but, just to make sure, he
took off the paper cover and looked at it, and it
<span class='it'>looked</span> just like honey. "But you never can tell,"
said Pooh. "I remember my uncle saying once that
he had seen cheese just this colour." So he put his
tongue in, and took a large lick. "Yes," he said,
"it is. No doubt about that. And honey, I should

say, right down to the bottom
of the jar. Unless, of
course," he said, "somebody
put cheese in at the bottom
just for a joke. Perhaps
I had better go a <span class='it'>little</span>
further .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. just in case
.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. in case Heffalumps
<span class='it'>don't</span> like cheese .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. same
as me.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Ah!" And he gave a deep
sigh. "I <span class='it'>was</span> right. It <span class='it'>is</span> honey, right the way
down."</p>

<p>Having made certain of this, he took the jar back
to Piglet, and Piglet looked up from the bottom of
his Very Deep Pit, and said, "Got it?" and Pooh
said, "Yes, but it isn't quite a full jar," and he
threw it down to Piglet, and Piglet said, "No, it
isn't! Is that all you've got left?" and Pooh said
"Yes." Because it was. So Piglet put the jar at
the bottom of the Pit, and climbed out, and they
went off home together.</p>

<p>"Well, good night, Pooh,"
said Piglet, when they had
got to Pooh's house. "And
we meet at six o'clock to-morrow
morning by the
Pine Trees, and see how
many Heffalumps we've got
in our Trap."</p>

<p>
"Six o'clock, Piglet. And have you got any
string?"</p>

<p>"No. Why do you want string?"</p>

<p>"To lead them home with."</p>

<p>"Oh! .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. I <span class='it'>think</span> Heffalumps come if you
whistle."</p>

<p>"Some do and some don't. You never can tell
with Heffalumps. Well, good night!"</p>

<p>"Good night!"</p>

<p>And off Piglet trotted to his house TRESPASSERS
W, while Pooh made his preparations
for bed.</p>

<p>Some hours later, just as the night was beginning
to steal away, Pooh woke up suddenly with a sinking
feeling. He had had that sinking feeling before,
and he knew what it meant. <span class='it'>He was hungry.</span> So
he went to the larder, and he stood on a chair and
reached up to the top shelf, and found--nothing.</p>

<p>"That's funny," he thought. "I know I had a
jar of honey there. A full jar, full of honey right
up to the top, and it had HUNNY written on it,
so that I should know it was honey. That's very
funny." And then he began to wander up and
down, wondering where it was and murmuring a
murmur to himself. Like this:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>It's very, very funny,</p>
<p class='line0'>'Cos I <span class='it'>know</span> I had some honey;</p>
<p class='line0'>'Cos it had a label on,</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Saying HUNNY.</p>
<p class='line0'></p>
<p class='line0'>A goloptious full-up pot too,</p>
<p class='line0'>And I don't know where it's got to,</p>
<p class='line0'>No, I don't know where it's gone--</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Well, it's funny.</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>He had murmured this to himself three times in
a singing sort of way, when suddenly he remembered.
He had put it into the Cunning Trap to
catch the Heffalump.</p>

<p>"Bother!" said Pooh. "It all comes of trying
to be kind to Heffalumps." And he got back into
bed.</p>

<p>But he couldn't sleep. The more he tried to
sleep, the more he couldn't. He tried Counting
Sheep, which is sometimes a good way of getting to
sleep, and, as that was no good, he tried counting
Heffalumps. And that was worse. Because every

Heffalump that he counted was making straight for
a pot of Pooh's honey, <span class='it'>and eating it all</span>. For some
minutes he lay there miserably, but when the five
hundred and eighty-seventh Heffalump was licking
its jaws, and saying to itself, "Very good honey
this, I don't know when I've tasted better," Pooh
could bear it no longer. He jumped out of bed,
he ran out of the house, and he ran straight to the
Six Pine Trees.</p>

<p>The Sun was still in bed, but there was a lightness
in the sky over the Hundred Acre Wood which
seemed to show that it was waking up and would
soon be kicking off the clothes. In the half-light
the Pine Trees looked cold and lonely, and the Very
Deep Pit seemed deeper than it was, and Pooh's jar
of honey at the bottom was something mysterious,

a shape and no more. But as he got nearer to it
his nose told him that it was indeed honey, and his
tongue came out and began to polish up his mouth,
ready for it.</p>

<p>"Bother!" said Pooh, as he got his nose inside
the jar. "A Heffalump has been eating it!" And
then he thought a little and said, "Oh, no, <span class='it'>I</span> did.
I forgot."</p>

<p>Indeed, he had eaten most of it. But there was
a little left at the very bottom of the jar, and he
pushed his head right in, and began to lick.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>By and by Piglet woke up. As soon as he woke
he said to himself, "Oh!" Then he said bravely,
"Yes," and then, still more bravely, "Quite so."
But he didn't feel very brave, for the word which
was really jiggeting about in his brain was "Heffalumps."</p>

<p>What was a Heffalump like?</p>

<p>Was it Fierce?</p>

<p><span class='it'>Did</span> it come when you whistled? And <span class='it'>how</span> did
it come?</p>

<p>
Was it Fond of Pigs at all?</p>

<p>If it was Fond of Pigs, did it make any difference
<span class='it'>what sort of Pig</span>?</p>

<p>Supposing it was Fierce with Pigs, would it make
any difference <span class='it'>if the Pig had a grandfather called
TRESPASSERS WILLIAM</span>?</p>

<p>He didn't know the answer to any of these questions
.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and he was going to see his first Heffalump
in about an hour from now!</p>

<p>Of course Pooh would be with him, and it was
much more Friendly with two. But suppose
Heffalumps were Very Fierce with Pigs <span class='it'>and</span> Bears?
Wouldn't it be better to pretend that he had a headache,
and couldn't go up to the Six Pine Trees this
morning? But then suppose that it was a very
fine day, and there was no Heffalump in the trap,

here he would be, in bed all
the morning, simply wasting
his time for nothing. What
should he do?</p>

<p>And then he had a Clever
Idea. He would go up very
quietly to the Six Pine Trees
now, peep very cautiously
into the Trap, and see if
there <span class='it'>was</span> a Heffalump there. And if there was,
he would go back to bed, and if there wasn't, he
wouldn't.</p>

<p>So off he went. At first he thought that there
wouldn't be a Heffalump in the Trap, and then he
thought that there would, and as he got nearer he
was <span class='it'>sure</span> that there would, because he could hear it
heffalumping about it like anything.</p>

<p>"Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear!" said Piglet to
himself. And he wanted to run away. But somehow,
having got so near, he felt that he must just
see what a Heffalump was
like. So he crept to the
side of the Trap and looked
in.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>And all the time Winnie-the-Pooh
had been trying
to get the honey-jar off his
head. The more he shook
it, the more tightly it stuck.</p>

<p>
"<span class='it'>Bother!</span>" he said, inside the jar, and "<span class='it'>Oh, help!</span>"
and, mostly, "<span class='it'>Ow!</span>" And he tried bumping it
against things, but as he couldn't see what he was
bumping it against, it didn't help him; and he tried
to climb out of the Trap, but as he could see nothing
but jar, and not much of that, he couldn't find
his way. So at last he lifted up his head, jar and
all, and made a loud, roaring noise of Sadness and
Despair .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and it was at that moment that
Piglet looked down.</p>

<p>"Help, help!" cried Piglet, "a Heffalump, a Horrible
Heffalump!" and he scampered off as hard
as he could, still crying out, "Help, help, a Herrible
Hoffalump! Hoff, Hoff, a Hellible Horralump!
Holl, Holl, a Hoffable Hellerump!" And he didn't
stop crying and scampering until he got to Christopher
Robin's house.</p>

<p>"Whatever's the matter, Piglet?" said Christopher
Robin, who was just getting up.</p>

<p>"Heff," said Piglet, breathing so hard that he
could hardly speak, "a Heff--a Heff--a Heffalump."</p>

<p>"Where?"</p>

<p>"Up there," said Piglet, waving his paw.</p>

<p>"What did it look like?"</p>

<p>"Like--like----It had the biggest head you ever
saw, Christopher Robin. A great enormous thing,
like--like nothing. A huge big--well, like a--I
don't know--like an enormous big nothing. Like
a jar."</p>

<p>
"Well," said Christopher
Robin, putting on his shoes,
"I shall go and look at it.
Come on."</p>

<p>Piglet wasn't afraid if he
had Christopher Robin with
him, so off they went.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>"I can hear it, can't you?"
said Piglet anxiously, as
they got near.</p>

<p>"I can hear <span class='it'>something</span>," said Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>It was Pooh bumping his head against a tree-root
he had found.</p>

<p>"There!" said Piglet. "Isn't it <span class='it'>awful</span>?"
And he held on tight to Christopher Robin's
hand.</p>

<p>Suddenly Christopher Robin began to laugh .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
and he laughed .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and he laughed .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and
he laughed. And while he was still laughing--<span class='it'>Crash</span>
went the Heffalump's head against the tree-root,
Smash went the jar, and out
came Pooh's head again.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>Then Piglet saw what a
Foolish Piglet he had been,
and he was so ashamed of
himself that he ran straight
off home and went to bed
with a headache. But Christopher

Robin and Pooh went home to breakfast together.</p>

<p>"Oh, Bear!" said Christopher Robin. "How I
do love you!"</p>

<p>"So do I," said Pooh.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER VI<br/> IN WHICH EEYORE HAS A BIRTHDAY<br/> AND GETS TWO PRESENTS</h2>

<p>Eeyore, the old grey Donkey, stood by the
side of the stream, and looked at himself in
the water.</p>

<p>"Pathetic," he said. "That's what it is.
Pathetic."</p>

<p>He turned and walked slowly down the stream
for twenty yards, splashed across it, and walked
slowly back on the other side. Then he looked at
himself in the water again.</p>

<p>"As I thought," he said. "No better from <span class='it'>this</span>
side. But nobody minds. Nobody cares. Pathetic,
that's what it is."</p>

<p>There was a crackling noise in the bracken behind
him, and out came Pooh.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Eeyore," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Pooh Bear," said Eeyore gloomily.
"If it <span class='it'>is</span> a good morning," he said. "Which
I doubt," said he.</p>

<p>"Why, what's the matter?"</p>

<p>"Nothing, Pooh Bear, nothing. We can't all,
and some of us don't. That's all there is to it."</p>

<p>
"Can't all <span class='it'>what</span>?" said Pooh, rubbing his nose.</p>

<p>"Gaiety. Song-and-dance. Here we go round
the mulberry bush."</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh. He thought for a long time,
and then asked, "What mulberry bush is that?"</p>

<p>"Bon-hommy," went on Eeyore gloomily.
"French word meaning bonhommy," he explained.
"I'm not complaining, but There It Is."</p>

<p>Pooh sat down on a large stone, and tried to think
this out. It sounded to him like a riddle, and he
was never much good at riddles, being a Bear of
Very Little Brain. So he sang <span class='it'>Cottleston Pie</span> instead:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,</p>
<p class='line0'>A fly can't bird, but a bird can fly.</p>
<p class='line0'>Ask me a riddle and I reply:</p>
<p class='line0'>"<span class='it'>Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie.</span>"</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>That was the first verse. When he had finished
it, Eeyore didn't actually say that he didn't like

it, so Pooh very kindly sang the second verse to
him:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,</p>
<p class='line0'>A fish can't whistle and neither can I.</p>
<p class='line0'>Ask me a riddle and I reply:</p>
<p class='line0'>"<span class='it'>Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie</span>."</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>Eeyore still said nothing at all, so Pooh hummed
the third verse quietly to himself:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,</p>
<p class='line0'>Why does a chicken, I don't know why.</p>
<p class='line0'>Ask me a riddle and I reply:</p>
<p class='line0'>"<span class='it'>Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie</span>."</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>"That's right," said Eeyore. "Sing. Umty-tiddly,
umty-too. Here we go gathering Nuts and
May. Enjoy yourself."</p>

<p>"I am," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Some can," said Eeyore.</p>

<p>"Why, what's the matter?"</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Is</span> anything the matter?"</p>

<p>"You seem so sad, Eeyore."</p>

<p>
"Sad? Why should I be sad? It's my birthday.
The happiest day of the year."</p>

<p>"Your birthday?" said Pooh in great surprise.</p>

<p>"Of course it is. Can't you see? Look at all
the presents I have had." He waved a foot from
side to side. "Look at the birthday cake. Candles
and pink sugar."</p>

<p>Pooh looked--first to the right and then to the
left.</p>

<p>"Presents?" said Pooh. "Birthday cake?" said
Pooh. "<span class='it'>Where?</span>"</p>

<p>"Can't you see them?"</p>

<p>"No," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Neither can I," said Eeyore. "Joke," he explained.
"Ha ha!"</p>

<p>Pooh scratched his head, being a little puzzled
by all this.</p>

<p>"But is it really your birthday?" he asked.</p>

<p>"It is."</p>

<p>"Oh! Well, Many happy returns of the day,
Eeyore."</p>

<p>"And many happy returns to you, Pooh Bear."</p>

<p>"But it isn't <span class='it'>my</span> birthday."</p>

<p>"No, it's mine."</p>

<p>"But you said 'Many happy returns'----"</p>

<p>"Well, why not? You don't always want to be
miserable on my birthday, do you?"</p>

<p>"Oh, I see," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"It's bad enough," said Eeyore, almost breaking

down, "being miserable myself, what with no presents
and no cake and no candles, and no proper
notice taken of me at all, but if everybody else is
going to be miserable too----"</p>

<p>This was too much for Pooh. "Stay there!" he
called to Eeyore, as he turned and hurried back
home as quick as he could; for he felt that he must
get poor Eeyore a present of <span class='it'>some</span> sort at once, and
he could always think of a proper one afterwards.</p>

<p>Outside his house he found Piglet, jumping up
and down trying to reach the knocker.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Piglet," he said.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Pooh," said Piglet.</p>

<p>"What are <span class='it'>you</span> trying to do?"</p>

<p>"I was trying to reach the knocker," said Piglet.
"I just came round----"</p>

<p>"Let me do it for you," said Pooh kindly. So he
reached up and knocked at the door. "I have just

seen Eeyore," he began, "and poor Eeyore is in a
Very Sad Condition, because it's his birthday, and
nobody has taken any notice of it, and he's very
Gloomy--you know what Eeyore is--and there he
was, and----What a long time whoever lives here
is answering this door." And he knocked again.</p>

<p>"But Pooh," said Piglet, "it's your own house!"</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh. "So it is," he said. "Well,
let's go in."</p>

<p>So in they went. The first thing Pooh did was to
go to the cupboard to see if he had quite a small jar
of honey left; and he had, so he took it down.</p>

<p>"I'm giving this to Eeyore," he explained, "as a
present. What are <span class='it'>you</span> going to give?"</p>

<p>"Couldn't I give it too?" said Piglet. "From
both of us?"</p>

<p>"No," said Pooh. "That would <span class='it'>not</span> be a good
plan."</p>

<p>"All right, then, I'll give him a balloon. I've got
one left from my party. I'll go and get it now,
shall I?"</p>

<p>"That, Piglet, is a <span class='it'>very</span> good idea. It is just what

Eeyore wants to cheer him up. Nobody can be
uncheered with a balloon."</p>

<p>So off Piglet trotted; and in the other direction
went Pooh, with his jar of honey.</p>

<p>It was a warm day, and he had a long way to
go. He hadn't gone more than half-way when a
sort of funny feeling began to creep all over him.
It began at the tip of his nose and trickled all
through him and out at the soles of his feet. It was
just as if somebody inside him were saying, "Now
then, Pooh, time for a little something."</p>

<p>"Dear, dear," said Pooh, "I didn't know it was
as late as that." So he sat down and took the top
off his jar of honey. "Lucky I brought this with
me," he thought. "Many a bear going out on a
warm day like this would never have thought of

bringing a little something with him." And he
began to eat.</p>

<p>"Now let me see," he thought, as he took his last
lick of the inside of the jar, "where was I going?
Ah, yes, Eeyore." He got up slowly.</p>

<p>And then, suddenly, he remembered. He had
eaten Eeyore's birthday present!</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Bother!</span>" said Pooh. "What <span class='it'>shall</span> I do? I
<span class='it'>must</span> give him <span class='it'>something</span>."</p>

<p>For a little while he couldn't think of anything.
Then he thought: "Well, it's a very nice pot, even
if there's no honey in it, and if I washed it clean,
and got somebody to write '<span class='it'>A Happy Birthday</span>' on
it, Eeyore could keep things in it, which might be
Useful." So, as he was just passing the Hundred
Acre Wood, he went inside to call on Owl, who
lived there.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Owl," he said.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Pooh," said Owl.</p>

<p>"Many happy returns of Eeyore's birthday," said
Pooh.</p>

<p>"Oh, is that what it is?"</p>

<p>"What are you giving him, Owl?"</p>

<p>
"What are <span class='it'>you</span> giving him, Pooh?"</p>

<p>"I'm giving him a Useful Pot to Keep Things
In, and I wanted to ask you----"</p>

<p>"Is this it?" said Owl, taking it out of Pooh's
paw.</p>

<p>"Yes, and I wanted to ask you----"</p>

<p>"Somebody has been keeping honey in it," said
Owl.</p>

<p>"You can keep <span class='it'>anything</span> in it," said Pooh
earnestly. "It's Very Useful like that. And I
wanted to ask you----"</p>

<p>"You ought to write '<span class='it'>A Happy Birthday</span>' on it."</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>That</span> was what I wanted to ask you," said Pooh.
"Because my spelling is Wobbly. It's good spelling
but it Wobbles, and the letters get in the wrong
places. Would <span class='it'>you</span> write 'A Happy Birthday' on
it for me?"</p>

<p>"It's a nice pot," said Owl, looking at it all round.
"Couldn't I give it too? From both of us?"</p>

<p>"No," said Pooh. "That would <span class='it'>not</span> be a good
plan. Now I'll just wash it first, and then you can
write on it."</p>

<p>Well, he washed the pot out, and dried it, while
Owl licked the end of his pencil, and wondered how
to spell "birthday."</p>

<p>"Can you read, Pooh?" he asked a little anxiously.
"There's a notice about knocking and ringing
outside my door, which Christopher Robin
wrote. Could you read it?"</p>

<p>
"Christopher Robin told me what it said, and
<span class='it'>then</span> I could."</p>

<p>"Well, I'll tell you what <span class='it'>this</span> says, and then you'll
be able to."</p>

<p>So Owl wrote .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and this is what he wrote:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>HIPY PAPY BTHUTHDTH THUTHDA</p>
<p class='line'>BTHUTHDY.</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>Pooh looked on admiringly.</p>

<p>"I'm just saying 'A Happy Birthday'," said Owl
carelessly.</p>

<p>"It's a nice long one," said Pooh, very much
impressed by it.</p>

<p>"Well, <span class='it'>actually</span>, of course, I'm saying 'A Very
Happy Birthday with love from Pooh.' Naturally
it takes a good deal of pencil to say a long thing
like that."</p>

<p>
"Oh, I see," said Pooh.</p>

<p>While all this was happening, Piglet had gone
back to his own house to get Eeyore's balloon.
He held it very tightly against himself, so that it
shouldn't blow away, and he ran as fast as he
could so as to get to Eeyore before Pooh did; for
he thought that he would like to be the first one to
give a present, just as if he had thought of it without
being told by anybody. And running along, and
thinking how pleased Eeyore would be, he didn't
look where he was going .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and suddenly he put
his foot in a rabbit hole, and fell down flat on his
face.</p>

<p>BANG!!!???***!!!</p>

<p>Piglet lay there, wondering what had happened.
At first he thought that the whole world had blown
up; and then he thought that perhaps only the
Forest part of it had; and then he thought that
perhaps only <span class='it'>he</span> had, and he was now alone in the
moon or somewhere, and would never see Christopher
Robin or Pooh or Eeyore again. And then

he thought, "Well, even if I'm in the moon, I
needn't be face downwards all the time," so he got
cautiously up and looked about him.</p>

<p>He was still in the Forest!</p>

<p>"Well, that's funny," he thought. "I wonder
what that bang was. I couldn't have made such a
noise just falling down. And where's my balloon?
And what's that small piece of damp rag doing?"</p>

<p>It was the balloon!</p>

<p>"Oh, dear!" said Piglet "Oh, dear, oh, dearie,
dearie, dear! Well, it's too late now. I can't go
back, and I haven't another balloon, and perhaps
Eeyore doesn't <span class='it'>like</span> balloons so <span class='it'>very</span> much."</p>

<p>So he trotted on, rather sadly now, and down he
came to the side of the stream where Eeyore was,
and called out to him.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Eeyore," shouted Piglet.</p>

<p>"Good morning, Little Piglet," said Eeyore. "If
it <span class='it'>is</span> a good morning," he said. "Which I doubt,"
said he. "Not that it matters," he said.</p>

<p>"Many happy returns of the day," said Piglet,
having now got closer.</p>

<p>Eeyore stopped looking at himself in the stream,
and turned to stare at Piglet.</p>

<p>"Just say that again," he said.</p>

<p>"Many hap----"</p>

<p>"Wait a moment."</p>

<p>Balancing on three legs, he began to bring his
fourth leg very cautiously up to his ear. "I did

this yesterday," he explained, as he fell down for
the third time. "It's quite easy. It's so as I can
hear better.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. There, that's done it! Now
then, what were you saying?" He pushed his ear
forward with his hoof.</p>

<p>"Many happy returns of the day," said Piglet
again.</p>

<p>"Meaning me?"</p>

<p>"Of course, Eeyore."</p>

<p>"My birthday?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"Me having a real birthday?"</p>

<p>"Yes, Eeyore, and I've brought you a present."</p>

<p>Eeyore took down his right hoof from his right
ear, turned round, and with great difficulty put up
his left hoof.</p>

<p>"I must have that in the other ear," he said.
"Now then."</p>

<p>"A present," said Piglet very loudly.</p>

<p>"Meaning me again?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"My birthday still?"</p>

<p>
"Of course, Eeyore."</p>

<p>"Me going on having a real birthday?"</p>

<p>"Yes, Eeyore, and I brought you a balloon."</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Balloon?</span>" said Eeyore. "You did say balloon?
One of those big coloured things you blow up?
Gaiety, song-and-dance, here we are and there we
are?"</p>

<p>"Yes, but I'm afraid--I'm very sorry, Eeyore--but
when I was running along to bring it you, I
fell down."</p>

<p>"Dear, dear, how unlucky! You ran too fast, I
expect. You didn't hurt yourself, Little Piglet?"</p>

<p>"No, but I--I--oh, Eeyore, I burst the balloon!"</p>

<p>There was a very long silence.</p>

<p>"My balloon?" said Eeyore at last.</p>

<p>Piglet nodded.</p>

<p>"My birthday balloon?"</p>

<p>"Yes, Eeyore," said Piglet sniffing a little. "Here
it is. With--with many happy returns of the day."
And he gave Eeyore the small piece of damp
rag.</p>

<p>
"Is this it?" said Eeyore, a little surprised.</p>

<p>Piglet nodded.</p>

<p>"My present?"</p>

<p>Piglet nodded again.</p>

<p>"The balloon?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"Thank you, Piglet," said Eeyore. "You
don't mind my asking," he went on, "but what
colour was this balloon when it--when it <span class='it'>was</span> a
balloon?"</p>

<p>"Red."</p>

<p>"I just wondered.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Red," he murmured
to himself. "My favourite colour.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. How
big was it?"</p>

<p>"About as big as me."</p>

<p>"I just wondered.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. About as big as Piglet,"
he said to himself sadly. "My favourite size. Well,
well."</p>

<p>Piglet felt very miserable, and didn't know what
to say. He was still opening his mouth to begin
something, and then deciding that it wasn't any
good saying <span class='it'>that</span>, when he heard a shout from the
other side of the river, and there was Pooh.</p>

<p>"Many happy returns of the day," called out
Pooh, forgetting that he had said it already.</p>

<p>"Thank you, Pooh, I'm having them," said
Eeyore gloomily.</p>

<p>"I've brought you a little present," said Pooh
excitedly.</p>

<p>
"I've had it," said Eeyore.</p>

<p>Pooh had now splashed across the stream to
Eeyore, and Piglet was sitting a little way off, his
head in his paws, snuffling to himself.</p>

<p>"It's a Useful Pot," said Pooh. "Here it is.
And it's got 'A Very Happy Birthday with love
from Pooh' written on it. That's what all that
writing is. And it's for putting things in. There!"</p>

<p>When Eeyore saw the pot, he became quite excited.</p>

<p>"Why!" he said. "I believe my Balloon will
just go into that Pot!"</p>

<p>"Oh, no, Eeyore," said Pooh. "Balloons are
much too big to go into Pots. What you do with
a balloon is, you hold the ballon----"</p>

<p>"Not mine," said Eeyore proudly. "Look, Piglet!"
And as Piglet looked sorrowfully round,
Eeyore picked the balloon up with his teeth, and
placed it carefully in the pot; picked it out and put
it on the ground; and then picked it up again and
put it carefully back.</p>

<p>"So it does!" said Pooh. "It goes in!"</p>

<p>"So it does!" said Piglet. "And it comes out!"</p>

<p>"Doesn't it?" said Eeyore. "It goes in and out
like anything."</p>

<p>"I'm very glad," said Pooh happily, "that I
thought of giving you a Useful Pot to put things
in."</p>

<p>"I'm very glad," said Piglet happily, "that I

thought of giving you Something to put in a Useful
Pot."</p>

<p>But Eeyore wasn't listening. He was taking the
balloon out, and putting it back again, as happy as
could be.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>"And didn't <span class='it'>I</span> give him anything?" asked Christopher
Robin sadly.</p>

<p>"Of course you did," I said. "You gave him--don't
you remember--a little--a little----"</p>

<p>"I gave him a box of paints to paint things with."</p>

<p>"That was it."</p>

<p>"Why didn't I give it to him in the morning?"</p>

<p>"You were so busy getting his party ready for
him. He had a cake with icing on the top, and three
candles, and his name in pink sugar, and----"</p>

<p>"Yes, <span class='it'>I</span> remember," said Christopher Robin.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER VII<br/> IN WHICH KANGA AND BABY ROO COME<br/> TO THE FOREST, AND PIGLET HAS A BATH</h2>

<p>Nobody seemed to know where they came
from, but there they were in the Forest:
Kanga and Baby Roo. When Pooh asked
Christopher Robin, "How did they come here?"
Christopher Robin said, "In the Usual Way, if you
know what I mean, Pooh," and Pooh, who didn't,
said "Oh!" Then he nodded his head twice and
said, "In the Usual Way. Ah!" Then he went to
call upon his friend Piglet to see what <span class='it'>he</span> thought
about it. And at Piglet's house he found Rabbit.
So they all talked about it together.</p>

<p>"What I don't like about it is this," said Rabbit.
"Here are we--you, Pooh, and you, Piglet, and Me--and
suddenly----"</p>

<p>"And Eeyore," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"And Eeyore--and then suddenly----"</p>

<p>"And Owl," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"And Owl--and then all of a sudden----"</p>

<p>"Oh, and Eeyore," said Pooh. "I was forgetting
<span class='it'>him</span>."</p>

<p>"Here--we--are," said Rabbit very slowly and

carefully, "all--of--us, and then, suddenly, we
wake up one morning and, what do we find? We
find a Strange Animal among us. An animal of
whom we have never even heard before! An animal
who carries her family about with her in her pocket!
Suppose <span class='it'>I</span> carried <span class='it'>my</span> family about with me in <span class='it'>my</span>
pocket, how many pockets should I want?"</p>

<p>"Sixteen," said Piglet.</p>

<p>"Seventeen, isn't it?" said Rabbit. "And one
more for a handkerchief--that's eighteen. Eighteen
pockets in one suit! I haven't time."</p>

<p>There was a long and thoughtful silence .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
and then Pooh, who had been frowning very hard
for some minutes, said: "<span class='it'>I</span> make it fifteen."</p>

<p>"What?" said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"Fifteen."</p>

<p>"Fifteen what?"</p>

<p>"Your family."</p>

<p>"What about them?"</p>

<p>Pooh rubbed his nose and said that he thought
Rabbit had been talking about his family.</p>

<p>"Did I?" said Rabbit carelessly.</p>

<p>"Yes, you said----"</p>

<p>"Never mind, Pooh," said Piglet impatiently.</p>

<p>"The question is, What are we to do about
Kanga?"</p>

<p>"Oh, I see," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"The best way," said Rabbit, "would be this.
The best way would be to steal Baby Roo and hide

him, and then when Kanga says, 'Where's Baby
Roo?' we say, '<span class='it'>Aha!</span>'"</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Aha!</span>" said Pooh, practising. "<span class='it'>Aha! Aha!</span> .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
Of course," he went on, "we could say 'Aha!' even
if we hadn't stolen Baby Roo."</p>

<p>"Pooh," said Rabbit kindly, "you haven't any
brain."</p>

<p>"I know," said Pooh humbly.</p>

<p>"We say '<span class='it'>Aha!</span>' so that Kanga knows that <span class='it'>we</span>
know where Baby Roo is. '<span class='it'>Aha!</span>' means 'We'll
tell you where Baby Roo is, if you promise to go
away from the Forest and never come back.' Now
don't talk while I think."</p>

<p>Pooh went into a corner and tried saying 'Aha!'
in that sort of voice. Sometimes it seemed to him
that it did mean what Rabbit said, and sometimes
it seemed to him that it didn't. "I suppose it's
just practice," he thought. "I wonder if Kanga
will have to practise too so as to understand
it."</p>

<p>"There's just one thing," said Piglet, fidgeting
a bit. "I was talking to Christopher Robin, and
he said that a Kanga was Generally Regarded as
One of the Fiercer Animals. I am not frightened
of Fierce Animals in the ordinary way, but it is
well known that, if One of the Fiercer Animals is
Deprived of Its Young, it becomes as fierce as Two
of the Fiercer Animals. In which case '<span class='it'>Aha!</span>' is
perhaps a <span class='it'>foolish</span> thing to say."</p>

<p>
"Piglet," said Rabbit, taking out a pencil, and
licking the end of it, "you haven't any pluck."</p>

<p>"It is hard to be brave," said Piglet, sniffing
slightly, "when you're only a Very Small Animal."</p>

<p>Rabbit, who had begun to write very busily,
looked up and said:</p>

<p>"It is because you are a very small animal that
you will be Useful in the adventure before us."</p>

<p>Piglet was so excited at the idea of being Useful,
that he forgot to be frightened any more, and when
Rabbit went on to say that Kangas were only Fierce
during the winter months, being at other times of
an Affectionate Disposition, he could hardly sit still,
he was so eager to begin being useful at once.</p>

<p>"What about me?" said Pooh sadly. "I suppose
<span class='it'>I</span> shan't be useful?"</p>

<p>"Never mind, Pooh," said Piglet comfortingly.
"Another time perhaps."</p>

<p>"Without Pooh," said Rabbit solemnly as he
sharpened his pencil, "the adventure would be impossible."</p>

<p>
"Oh!" said Piglet, and tried not to look disappointed.
But Pooh went into a corner of the room
and said proudly to himself, "Impossible without
Me! <span class='it'>That</span> sort of Bear."</p>

<p>"Now listen all of you," said Rabbit when he had
finished writing, and Pooh and Piglet sat listening
very eagerly with their mouths open. This was
what Rabbit read out:</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;'>PLAN TO CAPTURE BABY ROO</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>1. <span class='it'>General Remarks.</span> Kanga runs faster than</p>
<p class='line'>any of Us, even Me.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>2. <span class='it'>More General Remarks.</span> Kanga never takes</p>
<p class='line'>her eye off Baby Roo, except when he's</p>
<p class='line'>safely buttoned up in her pocket.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>3. <span class='it'>Therefore.</span> If we are to capture Baby Roo,</p>
<p class='line'>we must get a Long Start, because Kanga</p>
<p class='line'>runs faster than any of Us, even Me.</p>
<p class='line'>(<span class='it'>See</span> 1.)</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>4. <span class='it'>A Thought.</span> If Roo had jumped out of</p>
<p class='line'>Kanga's pocket and Piglet had jumped in,</p>
<p class='line'>Kanga wouldn't know the difference, because</p>
<p class='line'>Piglet is a Very Small Animal.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>5. Like Roo.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>6. But Kanga would have to be looking the</p>
<p class='line'>other way first, so as not to see Piglet</p>
<p class='line'>jumping in.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>7. See 2.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'></p>
<p class='line'>8. <span class='it'>Another Thought.</span> But if Pooh was talking</p>
<p class='line'>to her very excitedly, she <span class='it'>might</span> look the</p>
<p class='line'>other way for a moment.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>9. And then I could run away with Roo.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>10. Quickly.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>11. <span class='it'>And Kanga wouldn't discover the difference until Afterwards.</span></p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>Well, Rabbit read this out proudly, and for a
little while after he had read it nobody said anything.
And then Piglet, who had been opening and
shutting his mouth without making any noise, managed
to say very huskily:</p>

<p>"And--Afterwards?"</p>

<p>"How do you mean?"</p>

<p>"When Kanga <span class='it'>does</span> Discover the Difference?"</p>

<p>"Then we all say '<span class='it'>Aha!</span>'"</p>

<p>"All three of us?"</p>

<p>"Yes."</p>

<p>"Oh!"</p>

<p>
"Why, what's the trouble, Piglet?"</p>

<p>"Nothing," said Piglet, "as long as <span class='it'>we all three</span>
say it. As long as we all three say it," said Piglet,
"I don't mind," he said, "but I shouldn't care
to say '<span class='it'>Aha!</span>' by myself. It wouldn't sound
<span class='it'>nearly</span> so well. By the way," he said, "you <span class='it'>are</span>
quite sure about what you said about the winter
months?"</p>

<p>"The winter months?"</p>

<p>"Yes, only being Fierce in the Winter Months."</p>

<p>"Oh, yes, yes, that's all right. Well, Pooh?
You see what you have to do?"</p>

<p>"No," said Pooh Bear. "Not yet," he said.
"What <span class='it'>do</span> I do?"</p>

<p>"Well, you just have to talk very hard to Kanga
so as she doesn't notice anything."</p>

<p>"Oh! What about?"</p>

<p>"Anything you like."</p>

<p>"You mean like telling her a little bit of poetry
or something?"</p>

<p>"That's it," said Rabbit. "Splendid. Now come
along."</p>

<p>So they all went out to look for Kanga.</p>

<p>Kanga and Roo were spending a quiet afternoon
in a sandy part of the Forest. Baby Roo was practising
very small jumps in the sand, and falling
down mouse-holes and climbing out of them, and
Kanga was fidgeting about and saying "Just one
more jump, dear, and then we must go home." And

at that moment who should come stumping up the
hill but Pooh.</p>

<p>"Good afternoon, Kanga."</p>

<p>"Good afternoon, Pooh."</p>

<p>"Look at me jumping," squeaked Roo, and fell
into another mouse-hole.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Roo, my little fellow!"</p>

<p>"We were just going home," said Kanga. "Good
afternoon, Rabbit. Good afternoon, Piglet."</p>

<p>Rabbit and Piglet, who had now come up from
the other side of the hill, said "Good afternoon,"
and "Hallo, Roo," and Roo asked them to look at
him jumping, so they stayed and looked.</p>

<p>And Kanga looked too.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>"Oh, Kanga," said Pooh, after Rabbit had winked
at him twice, "I don't know if you are interested
in Poetry at all?"</p>

<p>
"Hardly at all," said Kanga.</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Roo, dear, just one more jump and then we
must go home."</p>

<p>There was a short silence while Roo fell down
another mouse-hole.</p>

<p>"Go on," said Rabbit in a loud whisper behind
his paw.</p>

<p>"Talking of Poetry," said Pooh, "I made up a
little piece as I was coming along. It went like
this. Er--now let me see----"</p>

<p>"Fancy!" said Kanga. "Now Roo, dear----"</p>

<p>"You'll like this piece of poetry," said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"You'll love it," said Piglet.</p>

<p>"You must listen very carefully," said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"So as not to miss any of it," said Piglet.</p>

<p>"Oh, yes," said Kanga, but she still looked at
Baby Roo.</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>How</span> did it go, Pooh?" said Rabbit.</p>

<p>Pooh gave a little cough and began.</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;'>LINES WRITTEN BY A BEAR OF VERY LITTLE BRAIN</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>On Monday, when the sun is hot</p>
<p class='line0'>I wonder to myself a lot:</p>
<p class='line0'>"Now is it true, or is it not,</p>
<p class='line0'>"That what is which and which is what?"</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>On Tuesday, when it hails and snows,</p>
<p class='line0'>The feeling on me grows and grows</p>
<p class='line0'>That hardly anybody knows</p>
<p class='line0'>If those are these or these are those.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'></p>
<p class='line0'>On Wednesday, when the sky is blue,</p>
<p class='line0'>And I have nothing else to do,</p>
<p class='line0'>I sometimes wonder if it's true</p>
<p class='line0'>That who is what and what is who.</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>On Thursday, when it starts to freeze</p>
<p class='line0'>And hoar-frost twinkles on the trees,</p>
<p class='line0'>How very readily one sees</p>
<p class='line0'>That these are whose--but whose are these?</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line0'>On Friday----</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>"Yes, it is, isn't it?" said Kanga, not waiting
to hear what happened on Friday. "Just one
more jump, Roo, dear, and then we really <span class='it'>must</span> be
going."</p>

<p>Rabbit gave Pooh a hurrying-up sort of nudge.</p>

<p>"Talking of Poetry," said Pooh quickly, "have
you ever noticed that tree right over there?"</p>

<p>"Where?" said Kanga. "Now, Roo----"</p>

<p>
"Right over there," said Pooh, pointing behind
Kanga's back.</p>

<p>"No," said Kanga. "Now jump in, Roo, dear,
and we'll go home."</p>

<p>"You ought to look at that tree right over there,"
said Rabbit. "Shall I lift you in, Roo?" And he
picked up Roo in his paws.</p>

<p>"I can see a bird in it from here," said Pooh.
"Or is it a fish?"</p>

<p>"You ought to see that bird from here," said
Rabbit. "Unless it's a fish."</p>

<p>"It isn't a fish, it's a bird," said Piglet.</p>

<p>"So it is," said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"Is it a starling or a blackbird?" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"That's the whole question," said Rabbit. "Is it
a blackbird or a starling?"</p>

<p>And then at last Kanga did turn her head to
look. And the moment that her head was turned,
Rabbit said in a loud voice "In you go, Roo!" and
in jumped Piglet into Kanga's pocket, and off scampered
Rabbit, with Roo in his paws, as fast as he
could.</p>

<p>"Why, where's Rabbit?" said Kanga, turning
round again. "Are you all right, Roo, dear?"</p>

<p>Piglet made a squeaky Roo-noise from the bottom
of Kanga's pocket.</p>

<p>"Rabbit had to go away," said Pooh. "I think
he thought of something he had to go and see about
suddenly."</p>

<p>
"And Piglet?"</p>

<p>"I think Piglet thought of something at the same
time. Suddenly."</p>

<p>"Well, we must be getting home," said Kanga.
"Good-bye, Pooh." And in three large jumps she
was gone.</p>

<p>Pooh looked after her as she went.</p>

<p>"I wish I could jump like that," he thought.
"Some can and some can't. That's how it is."</p>

<p>But there were moments when Piglet wished that
Kanga couldn't. Often, when he had had a long
walk home through the Forest, he had wished that
he were a bird; but now he thought jerkily to himself
at the bottom of Kanga's pocket,</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;this &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;take</p>
<p class='line0'>"If &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;is &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;shall &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;really &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;to</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;flying I &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;never &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;it."</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>And as he went up in the air he said, "<span class='it'>Ooooooo!</span>"
and as he came down he said, "<span class='it'>Ow!</span>" And he was

saying, "<span class='it'>Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow</span>"
all the way to Kanga's house.</p>

<p>Of course as soon as Kanga unbuttoned her
pocket, she saw what had happened. Just for a
moment, she thought she was frightened, and then
she knew she wasn't; for she felt quite sure that
Christopher Robin would never let any harm happen
to Roo. So she said to herself, "If they are having
a joke with me, I will have a joke with them."</p>

<p>"Now then, Roo, dear," she said, as she took
Piglet out of her pocket. "Bed-time."</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Aha!</span>" said Piglet, as well as he could after his
Terrifying Journey. But it wasn't a very good
"<span class='it'>Aha!</span>" and Kanga didn't seem to understand what
it meant.</p>

<p>"Bath first," said Kanga in a cheerful voice.</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Aha!</span>" said Piglet again, looking round anxiously
for the others. But the others weren't there.
Rabbit was playing with Baby Roo in his own

house, and feeling more fond of him every minute,
and Pooh, who had decided to be a Kanga, was
still at the sandy place on the top of the Forest,
practising jumps.</p>

<p>"I am not at all sure," said Kanga in a thoughtful
voice, "that it wouldn't be a good idea to have
a <span class='it'>cold</span> bath this evening. Would you like that, Roo,
dear?"</p>

<p>Piglet, who had never been really fond of baths,
shuddered a long indignant shudder, and said in as
brave a voice as he could:</p>

<p>"Kanga, I see that the time has come to spleak
painly."</p>

<p>"Funny little Roo," said Kanga, as she got the
bath-water ready.</p>

<p>"I am <span class='it'>not</span> Roo," said Piglet loudly. "I am
Piglet!"</p>

<p>"Yes, dear, yes," said Kanga soothingly. "And
imitating Piglet's voice too! So clever of him,"
she went on, as she took a large bar of yellow
soap out of the cupboard. "What <span class='it'>will</span> he be doing
next?"</p>

<p>
"Can't you <span class='it'>see</span>?" shouted Piglet. "Haven't you
got <span class='it'>eyes</span>? <span class='it'>Look</span> at me!"</p>

<p>"I <span class='it'>am</span> looking, Roo, dear," said Kanga rather
severely. "And you know what I told you yesterday
about making faces. If you go on making
faces like Piglet's, you will grow up to <span class='it'>look</span> like
Piglet--and <span class='it'>then</span> think how sorry you will be. Now
then, into the bath, and don't let me have to speak
to you about it again."</p>

<p>Before he knew where he was, Piglet was in the
bath, and Kanga was scrubbing him firmly with a
large lathery flannel.</p>

<p>"Ow!" cried Piglet. "Let me out! I'm Piglet!"</p>

<p>"Don't open the mouth, dear, or the soap goes
in," said Kanga. "There! What did I tell you?"</p>

<p>"You--you--you did it on purpose," spluttered
Piglet, as soon as he could speak again .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and
then accidentally had another mouthful of lathery
flannel.</p>

<p>
"That's right, dear, don't say anything," said
Kanga, and in another minute Piglet was out of
the bath, and being rubbed dry with a towel.</p>

<p>"Now," said Kanga, "there's your medicine, and
then bed."</p>

<p>"W-w-what medicine?" said Piglet.</p>

<p>"To make you grow big and strong, dear, You
don't want to grow up small and weak like Piglet,
do you? Well, then!"</p>

<p>At that moment there was a knock at the door.</p>

<p>"Come in," said Kanga, and in came Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>"Christopher Robin, Christopher Robin!" cried
Piglet. "Tell Kanga who I am! She keeps saying
I'm Roo. I'm <span class='it'>not</span> Roo, am I?"</p>

<p>Christopher Robin looked at him very carefully,
and shook his head.</p>

<p>
"You can't be Roo," he said, "because I've just
seen Roo playing in Rabbit's house."</p>

<p>"Well!" said Kanga. "Fancy that! Fancy my
making a mistake like that."</p>

<p>"There you are!" said Piglet. "I told you so.
I'm Piglet."</p>

<p>Christopher Robin shook his head again.</p>

<p>"Oh, you're not Piglet," he said. "I know Piglet
well, and he's <span class='it'>quite</span> a different colour."</p>

<p>Piglet began to say that this was because he had
just had a bath, and then he thought that perhaps
he wouldn't say that, and as he opened his mouth
to say something else, Kanga slipped the medicine
spoon in, and then patted him on the back and
told him that it was really quite a nice taste when
you got used to it.</p>

<p>"I knew it wasn't Piglet," said Kanga. "I wonder
who it can be."</p>

<p>"Perhaps it's some relation of Pooh's," said Christopher
Robin. "What about a nephew or an uncle
or something?"</p>

<p>Kanga agreed that this was probably what it was,
and said that they would have to call it by some
name.</p>

<p>"I shall call it Pootel," said Christopher Robin.
"Henry Pootel for short."</p>

<p>And just when it was decided, Henry Pootel
wriggled out of Kanga's arms and jumped to the
ground. To his great joy Christopher Robin had

left the door open. Never had Henry Pootel
Piglet run so fast as he ran then, and he didn't
stop running until he had got quite close to his
house. But when he was a hundred yards away
he stopped running, and rolled the rest of the way
home, so as to get his own nice comfortable colour
again.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>So Kanga and Roo stayed in the Forest. And
every Tuesday Roo spent the day with his great
friend Rabbit, and every Tuesday Kanga spent the
day with her great friend Pooh, teaching him to
jump, and every Tuesday Piglet spent the day with
his great friend Christopher Robin. So they were
all happy again.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER VIII<br/> IN WHICH CHRISTOPHER ROBIN LEADS<br/> AN EXPOTITION TO THE NORTH POLE</h2>

<p>One fine day Pooh had stumped up to the top
of the Forest to see if his friend Christopher
Robin was interested in Bears at all. At
breakfast that morning (a simple meal of marmalade
spread lightly over a honeycomb or two) he
had suddenly thought of a new song. It began like
this:</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>"<span class='it'>Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear.</span>"</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>When he had got as far as this, he scratched his
head, and thought to himself "That's a very good
start for a song, but what about the second line?"
He tried singing "Ho," two or three times, but it
didn't seem to help. "Perhaps it would be better,"
he thought, "if I sang Hi for the life of a Bear."
So he sang it .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. but it wasn't. "Very well,
then," he said, "I shall sing that first line twice,
and perhaps if I sing it very quickly, I shall find
myself singing the third and fourth lines before I

have time to think of them, and that will be a Good
Song. Now then:"</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!</p>
<p class='line0'>I don't much mind if it rains or snows,</p>
<p class='line0'>'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice new nose,</p>
<p class='line0'>I don't much care if it snows or thaws,</p>
<p class='line0'>'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice clean paws!</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Sing Ho! for a Bear!</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Sing Ho! for a Pooh!</p>
<p class='line0'>And I'll have a little something in an hour or two!</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>He was so pleased with this song that he sang it
all the way to the top of the Forest, "and if I go on
singing it much longer," he thought, "it will be time
for the little something, and then the last line won't
be true." So he turned it into a hum instead.</p>

<p>Christopher Robin was sitting outside his door,
putting on his Big Boots. As soon as he saw the
Big Boots, Pooh knew that an Adventure was going
to happen, and he brushed the honey off his nose
with the back of his paw, and spruced himself up as
well as he could, so as to look Ready for Anything.</p>

<p>"Good-morning, Christopher Robin," he called
out.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Pooh Bear. I can't get this boot on."</p>

<p>"That's bad," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Do you think you could very kindly lean against
me, 'cos I keep pulling so hard that I fall over
backwards."</p>

<p>Pooh sat down, dug his feet into the ground, and

pushed hard against Christopher Robin's back, and
Christopher Robin pushed hard against his, and
pulled and pulled at his boot until he had got it on.</p>

<p>"And that's that," said Pooh. "What do we do
next?"</p>

<p>"We are all going on an Expedition," said Christopher
Robin, as he got up and brushed himself.
"Thank you, Pooh."</p>

<p>"Going on an Expotition?" said Pooh eagerly.
"I don't think I've ever been on one of those.
Where are we going to on this Expotition?"</p>

<p>"Expedition, silly old Bear. It's got an 'x' in
it."</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh. "I know." But he didn't
really.</p>

<p>"We're going to discover the North Pole."</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh again. "What <span class='it'>is</span> the North
Pole?" he asked.</p>

<p>"It's just a thing you discover," said Christopher
Robin carelessly, not being quite sure himself.</p>

<p>"Oh! I see," said Pooh. "Are bears any good
at discovering it?"</p>

<p>
"Of course they are. And Rabbit and Kanga
and all of you. It's an Expedition. That's what
an Expedition means. A long line of everybody.
You'd better tell the others to get ready, while I
see if my gun's all right. And we must all bring
Provisions."</p>

<p>"Bring what?"</p>

<p>"Things to eat."</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh happily. "I thought you said
Provisions. I'll go and tell them." And he
stumped off.</p>

<p>The first person he met was Rabbit.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Rabbit," he said, "is that you?"</p>

<p>"Let's pretend it isn't," said Rabbit, "and see
what happens."</p>

<p>"I've got a message for you."</p>

<p>
"I'll give it to him."</p>

<p>"We're all going on an Expotition with Christopher
Robin!"</p>

<p>"What is it when we're on it?"</p>

<p>"A sort of boat, I think," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Oh! that sort."</p>

<p>"Yes. And we're going to discover a Pole or
something. Or was it a Mole? Anyhow we're
going to discover it."</p>

<p>"We are, are we?" said Rabbit.</p>

<p>"Yes. And we've got to bring Pro--things to eat
with us. In case we want to eat them. Now I'm
going down to Piglet's. Tell Kanga, will you?"</p>

<p>He left Rabbit and hurried down to Piglet's
house. The Piglet was sitting on the ground at the
door of his house blowing happily at a dandelion,
and wondering whether it would be this year, next
year, sometime or never. He had just discovered
that it would be never, and was trying to remember
what "<span class='it'>it</span>" was, and hoping it wasn't anything nice,
when Pooh came up.</p>

<p>
"Oh! Piglet," said Pooh excitedly, "we're going
on an Expotition, all of us, with things to eat. To
discover something."</p>

<p>"To discover what?" said Piglet anxiously.</p>

<p>"Oh! just something."</p>

<p>"Nothing fierce?"</p>

<p>"Christopher Robin didn't say anything about
fierce. He just said it had an 'x'."</p>

<p>"It isn't their necks I mind," said Piglet earnestly.
"It's their teeth. But if Christopher Robin is coming
I don't mind anything."</p>

<p>In a little while they were all ready at the top
of the Forest, and the Expotition started. First
came Christopher Robin and Rabbit, then Piglet
and Pooh; then Kanga, with Roo in her pocket, and
Owl; then Eeyore; and, at the end, in a long line,
all Rabbit's friends-and-relations.</p>

<p>"I didn't ask them," explained Rabbit carelessly.
"They just came. They always do. They can
march at the end, after Eeyore."</p>

<p>"What I say," said Eeyore, "is that it's unsettling.
I didn't want to come on this Expo--what

Pooh said. I only came to oblige. But here I am;
and if I am the end of the Expo--what we're talking
about--then let me <span class='it'>be</span> the end. But if, every
time I want to sit down for a little rest, I have to
brush away half a dozen of Rabbit's smaller friends-and-relations
first, then this isn't an Expo--whatever
it is--at all, it's simply a Confused Noise.
That's what <span class='it'>I</span> say."</p>

<p>"I see what Eeyore means," said Owl. "If you
ask me----"</p>

<p>"I'm not asking anybody," said Eeyore. "I'm
just telling everybody. We can look for the North
Pole, or we can play 'Here we go gathering Nuts
and May' with the end part of an ant's nest. It's
all the same to me."</p>

<p>There was a shout from the top of the line.</p>

<p>"Come on!" called Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>
"Come on!" called Pooh and Piglet</p>

<p>"Come on!" called Owl.</p>

<p>"We're starting," said Rabbit. "I must go."
And he hurried off to the front of the Expotition
with Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"All right," said Eeyore. "We're going. Only
Don't Blame Me."</p>

<p>So off they all went to discover the Pole. And
as they walked, they chattered to each other of this
and that, all except Pooh, who was making up a
song.</p>

<p>"This is the first verse," he said to Piglet, when
he was ready with it.</p>

<p>"First verse of what?"</p>

<p>"My song."</p>

<p>"What song?"</p>

<p>"This one."</p>

<p>"Which one?"</p>

<p>"Well, if you listen, Piglet, you'll hear it."</p>

<p>"How do you know I'm not listening?"</p>

<p>Pooh couldn't answer that one, so he began to
sing.</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>They all went off to discover the Pole,</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all;</p>
<p class='line0'>It's a Thing you Discover, as I've been tole</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;By Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all.</p>
<p class='line0'>Eeyore, Christopher Robin and Pooh</p>
<p class='line0'>And Rabbit's relations all went too--</p>
<p class='line0'>And where the Pole was none of them knew.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>
<p class='line0'>&ensp;&ensp;Sing Hey! for Owl and Rabbit and all!</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>"Hush!" said Christopher Robin turning round
to Pooh, "we're just coming to a Dangerous Place."</p>

<p>"Hush!" said Pooh turning round quickly to
Piglet.</p>

<p>"Hush!" said Piglet to Kanga.</p>

<p>"Hush!" said Kanga to Owl, while Roo said
"Hush!" several times to himself very quietly.</p>

<p>"Hush!" said Owl to Eeyore.</p>

<p>"<span class='it'>Hush!</span>" said Eeyore in a terrible voice to all
Rabbit's friends-and-relations, and "Hush!" they
said hastily to each other all down the line, until it
got to the last one of all. And the last and smallest
friend-and-relation was so upset to find that the
whole Expotition was saying "Hush!" to <span class='it'>him</span>, that

he buried himself head downwards in a crack in
the ground, and stayed there for two days until the
danger was over, and then went home in a great
hurry, and lived quietly with his Aunt ever-afterwards.
His name was Alexander Beetle.</p>

<p>They had come to a stream which twisted and
tumbled between high rocky banks, and Christopher
Robin saw at once how dangerous it was.</p>

<p>"It's just the place," he explained, "for an Ambush."</p>

<p>"What sort of bush?" whispered Pooh to Piglet.
"A gorse-bush?"</p>

<p>"My dear Pooh," said Owl in his superior way,
"don't you know what an Ambush is?"</p>

<p>"Owl," said Piglet, looking round at him severely,
"Pooh's whisper was a perfectly private whisper,
and there was no need----"</p>

<p>"An Ambush," said Owl, "is a sort of Surprise."</p>

<p>"So is a gorse-bush sometimes," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"An Ambush, as I was about to explain to Pooh,"
said Piglet, "is a sort of Surprise."</p>

<p>"If people jump out at you suddenly, that's an
Ambush," said Owl.</p>

<p>
"It's an Ambush, Pooh, when people jump at you
suddenly," explained Piglet.</p>

<p>Pooh, who now knew what an Ambush was, said
that a gorse-bush had sprung at him suddenly one
day when he fell off a tree, and he had taken six
days to get all the prickles out of himself.</p>

<p>"We are not <span class='it'>talking</span> about gorse-bushes," said
Owl a little crossly.</p>

<p>"I am," said Pooh.</p>

<p>They were climbing very cautiously up the stream
now, going from rock to rock, and after they had
gone a little way they came to a place where the
banks widened out at each side, so that on each side
of the water there was a level strip of grass on
which they could sit down and rest. As soon as he
saw this, Christopher Robin called "Halt!" and they
all sat down and rested.</p>

<p>"I think," said Christopher Robin, "that we ought
to eat all our Provisions now, so that we shan't
have so much to carry."</p>

<p>"Eat all our what?" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"All that we've brought," said Piglet, getting to
work.</p>

<p>"That's a good idea," said Pooh, and he got to
work too.</p>

<p>"Have you all got something?" asked Christopher
Robin with his mouth full.</p>

<p>"All except me," said Eeyore. "As Usual." He
looked round at them in his melancholy way. "I

suppose none of you are sitting on a thistle by any
chance?"</p>

<p>"I believe I am," said Pooh. "Ow!" He got
up, and looked behind him. "Yes, I was. I thought
so."</p>

<p>"Thank you, Pooh. If you've quite finished with
it." He moved across to Pooh's place, and began
to eat.</p>

<p>"It don't do them any Good, you know, sitting
on them," he went on, as he looked up munching.
"Takes all the Life out of them. Remember that
another time, all of you. A little Consideration, a
little Thought for Others, makes all the difference."</p>

<p>As soon as he had finished his lunch Christopher
Robin whispered to Rabbit, and Rabbit said "Yes,
yes, of course," and they walked a little way up the
stream together.</p>

<p>"I didn't want the others to hear," said Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>"Quite so," said Rabbit, looking important.</p>

<p>
"It's--I wondered--It's only--Rabbit, I suppose
<span class='it'>you</span> don't know, What does the North Pole <span class='it'>look</span> like?"</p>

<p>"Well," said Rabbit, stroking his whiskers.
"Now you're asking me."</p>

<p>"I did know once, only I've sort of forgotten,"
said Christopher Robin carelessly.</p>

<p>"It's a funny thing," said Rabbit, "but I've sort
of forgotten too, although I did know <span class='it'>once</span>."</p>

<p>"I suppose it's just a pole stuck in the ground?"</p>

<p>"Sure to be a pole," said Rabbit, "because of
calling it a pole, and if it's a pole, well, I should
think it would be sticking in the ground, shouldn't
you, because there'd be nowhere else to stick it."</p>

<p>"Yes, that's what I thought."</p>

<p>"The only thing," said Rabbit, "is, <span class='it'>where is it
sticking</span>?"</p>

<p>"That's what we're looking for," said Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>They went back to the others. Piglet was lying
on his back, sleeping peacefully. Roo was washing
his face and paws in the stream, while Kanga explained
to everybody proudly that this was the first
time he had ever washed his face himself, and Owl
was telling Kanga an Interesting Anecdote full of
long words like Encyclopdia and Rhododendron
to which Kanga wasn't listening.</p>

<p>"I don't hold with all this washing," grumbled
Eeyore. "This modern Behind-the-ears nonsense.
What do <span class='it'>you</span> think, Pooh?"</p>

<p>
"Well," said Pooh, "<span class='it'>I</span> think----"</p>

<p>But we shall never know what Pooh thought, for
there came a sudden squeak from Roo, a splash,
and a loud cry of alarm from Kanga.</p>

<p>"So much for <span class='it'>washing</span>," said Eeyore.</p>

<p>"Roo's fallen in!" cried Rabbit, and he and Christopher
Robin came rushing down to the rescue.</p>

<p>"Look at me swimming!" squeaked Roo from
the middle of his pool, and was hurried down a
waterfall into the next pool.</p>

<p>"Are you all right, Roo dear?" called Kanga
anxiously.</p>

<p>"Yes!" said Roo. "Look at me sw----" and
down he went over the next waterfall into another
pool.</p>

<p>
Everybody was doing something to help. Piglet,
wide awake suddenly, was jumping up and down
and making "Oo, I say" noises; Owl was explaining
that in a case of Sudden and Temporary Immersion
the Important Thing was to keep the Head
Above Water; Kanga was jumping along the bank,
saying "Are you <span class='it'>sure</span> you're all right, Roo dear?"
to which Roo, from whatever pool he was in at the
moment, was answering "Look at me swimming!"
Eeyore had turned round and hung his tail over
the first pool into which Roo fell, and with his
back to the accident was grumbling quietly to himself,
and saying, "All this washing; but catch on
to my tail, little Roo, and you'll be all right"; and,
Christopher Robin and Rabbit came hurrying past
Eeyore, and were calling out to the others in front
of them.</p>

<p>"All right, Roo, I'm coming," called Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>"Get something across the stream lower down,
some of you fellows," called Rabbit.</p>

<p>
But Pooh was getting something. Two pools
below Roo he was standing with a long pole in his
paws, and Kanga came up and took one end of it,
and between them they held it across the lower part
of the pool; and Roo, still bubbling proudly, "Look
at me swimming," drifted up against it, and climbed
out.</p>

<p>"Did you see me swimming?" squeaked Roo
excitedly, while Kanga scolded him and rubbed
him down. "Pooh, did you see me swimming?
That's called swimming, what I was doing. Rabbit,
did you see what I was doing? Swimming. Hallo,
Piglet! I say, Piglet! What do you think I was
doing! Swimming! Christopher Robin, did you
see me----"</p>

<p>But Christopher Robin wasn't listening. He was
looking at Pooh.</p>

<p>"Pooh," he said, "where did you find that pole?"</p>

<p>Pooh looked at the pole in his hands.</p>

<p>"I just found it," he said. "I thought it ought
to be useful. I just picked it up."</p>

<p>"Pooh," said Christopher Robin solemnly, "the
Expedition is over. You have found the North
Pole!"</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh.</p>

<p>Eeyore was sitting with his tail in the water when
they all got back to him.</p>

<p>"Tell Roo to be quick, somebody," he said. "My
tail's getting cold. I don't want to mention it, but

I just mention it. I don't want to complain but
there it is. My tail's cold."</p>

<p>"Here I am!" squeaked Roo.</p>

<p>"Oh, there you are."</p>

<p>"Did you see me swimming?"</p>

<p>Eeyore took his tail out of the water, and swished
it from side to side.</p>

<p>"As I expected," he said. "Lost all feeling.
Numbed it. That's what it's done. Numbed it.
Well, as long as nobody minds, I suppose it's all
right."</p>

<p>"Poor old Eeyore. I'll dry it for you," said
Christopher Robin, and he took out his handkerchief
and rubbed it up.</p>

<p>"Thank you, Christopher Robin. You're the
only one who seems to understand about tails. They
don't think--that's what the matter with some of
these others. They've no imagination. A tail isn't
a tail to <span class='it'>them</span>, it's just a Little Bit Extra at the
back."</p>

<p>"Never mind, Eeyore," said Christopher Robin,
rubbing his hardest. "Is <span class='it'>that</span> better?"</p>

<p>"It's feeling more like a tail perhaps. It Belongs
again, if you know what I mean."</p>

<p>"Hullo, Eeyore," said Pooh, coming up to them
with his pole.</p>

<p>"Hullo, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall
be able to use it again in a day or two."</p>

<p>"Use what?" said Pooh.</p>

<p>
"What we are talking about."</p>

<p>"I wasn't talking about anything," said Pooh,
looking puzzled.</p>

<p>"My mistake again. I thought you were saying
how sorry you were about my tail, being all numb,
and could you do anything to help?"</p>

<p>"No," said Pooh. "That wasn't me," he said.
He thought for a little and then suggested helpfully,
"Perhaps it was somebody else."</p>

<p>"Well, thank him for me when you see him."</p>

<p>Pooh looked anxiously at Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"Pooh's found the North Pole," said Christopher
Robin. "Isn't that lovely?"</p>

<p>Pooh looked modestly down.</p>

<p>"Is that it?" said Eeyore.</p>

<p>"Yes," said Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"Is that what we were looking for?"</p>

<p>"Yes," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Eeyore. "Well, anyhow--it didn't
rain," he said.</p>

<p>They stuck the pole in the ground, and Christopher
Robin tied a message on to it.</p>

<div class='lgc' style=''> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>NORTH POLE</p>
<p class='line'>DISCOVERED BY POOH</p>
<p class='line'>POOH FOUND IT.</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>
Then they all went home again. And I think,
but I am not quite sure, that Roo had a hot bath
and went straight to bed. But Pooh went back to
his own house, and feeling very proud of what he
had done, had a little something to revive himself.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER IX<br/> IN WHICH PIGLET IS ENTIRELY<br/> SURROUNDED BY WATER</h2>

<p>It rained and it rained and it rained. Piglet
told himself that never in all his life, and <span class='it'>he</span>
was goodness knows <span class='it'>how</span> old--three, was it, or
four?--never had he seen so much rain. Days and
days and days.</p>

<p>"If only," he thought, as he looked out of the
window, "I had been in Pooh's house, or Christopher
Robin's house, or Rabbit's house when it began
to rain, then I should have had Company all this
time, instead of being here all alone, with nothing
to do except wonder when it will stop." And he
imagined himself with Pooh, saying, "Did you ever
see such rain, Pooh?" and Pooh saying, "Isn't it
<span class='it'>awful</span>, Piglet?" and Piglet saying, "I wonder how
it is over Christopher Robin's way" and Pooh saying,
"I should think poor old Rabbit is about flooded
out by this time." It would have been jolly to talk
like this, and really, it wasn't much good having
anything exciting like floods, if you couldn't share
them with somebody.</p>

<p>
For it was rather exciting. The little dry ditches
in which Piglet had nosed about so often had become
streams, the little streams across which he had
splashed were rivers, and the river, between whose
steep banks they had played so happily, had
sprawled out of its own bed and was taking up so
much room everywhere, that Piglet was beginning
to wonder whether it would be coming into <span class='it'>his</span> bed
soon.</p>

<p>"It's a little Anxious," he said to himself, "to be
a Very Small Animal Entirely Surrounded by Water.
Christopher Robin and Pooh could escape by Climbing
Trees, and Kanga could escape by Jumping, and
Rabbit could escape by Burrowing, and Owl could
escape by Flying, and Eeyore could escape by--by
Making a Loud Noise Until Rescued, and here am
I, surrounded by water and I can't do <span class='it'>anything</span>."</p>

<p>It went on raining, and every day the water got
a little higher, until now it was nearly up to Piglet's
window .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and still he hadn't done anything.</p>

<p>"There's Pooh," he thought to himself. "Pooh
hasn't much Brain, but he never comes to any
harm. He does silly things and they turn out right.
There's Owl. Owl hasn't exactly got Brain, but he
Knows Things. He would know the Right Thing
to Do when Surrounded by Water. There's Rabbit.
He hasn't Learnt in Books, but he can always Think
of a Clever Plan. There's Kanga. She isn't Clever,
Kanga isn't, but she would be so anxious about

Roo that she would do a Good Thing to Do without
thinking about It. And then there's Eeyore.
And Eeyore is so miserable anyhow that he wouldn't
mind about this. But I wonder what Christopher
Robin would do?"</p>

<p>Then suddenly he remembered a story which
Christopher Robin had told him about a man on a
desert island who had written something in a bottle
and thrown it in the sea; and Piglet thought that
if he wrote something in a bottle and threw it in
the water, perhaps somebody would come and rescue
<span class='it'>him</span>!</p>

<p>He left the window and began to search his
house, all of it that wasn't under water, and at last
he found a pencil and a small piece of dry paper,
and a bottle with a cork to it. And he wrote on
one side of the paper:</p>

<div class='lgc' style=''> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>HELP!</p>
<p class='line'>PIGLET (ME)</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>and on the other side:</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;'>IT'S ME PIGLET, HELP HELP.</p>

<p>Then he put the paper in the bottle, and he corked
the bottle up as tightly as he could, and he leant out
of his window as far as he could lean without falling
in, and he threw the bottle as far as he could
throw--<span class='it'>splash!</span>--and in a little while it bobbed up
again on the water; and he watched it floating
slowly away in the distance, until his eyes ached

with looking, and sometimes he thought it was the
bottle, and sometimes he thought it was just a ripple
on the water which he was following, and then suddenly
he knew that he would never see it again and
that he had done all that he could do to save himself.</p>

<p>"So now," he thought, "somebody else will have
to do something, and I hope they will do it soon,
because if they don't I shall have to swim, which I
can't, so I hope they do it soon." And then he gave
a very long sigh and said, "I wish Pooh were here.
It's so much more friendly with two."</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>When the rain began Pooh was asleep. It rained,
and it rained, and it rained, and he slept and he
slept and he slept. He had had a tiring day. You
remember how he discovered the North Pole; well,
he was so proud of this that he asked Christopher
Robin if there were any other Poles such as a Bear
of Little Brain might discover.</p>

<p>"There's a South Pole," said Christopher Robin,
"and I expect there's an East Pole and a West
Pole, though people don't like talking about them."</p>

<p>
Pooh was very excited when he heard this, and
suggested that they should have an Expotition to
discover the East Pole, but Christopher Robin had
thought of something else to do with Kanga; so
Pooh went out to discover the East Pole by himself.
Whether he discovered it or not, I forget; but he
was so tired when he got home that, in the very
middle of his supper, after he had been eating for
little more than half-an-hour, he fell fast asleep in
his chair, and slept and slept and slept.</p>

<p>Then suddenly he was dreaming. He was at the
East Pole, and it was a very cold pole with the
coldest sort of snow and ice all over it. He had
found a bee-hive to sleep in, but there wasn't room
for his legs, so he had left them outside. And Wild
Woozles, such as inhabit the East Pole, came and
nibbled all the fur off his legs to make nests for
their Young. And the more they nibbled, the colder
his legs got, until suddenly he woke up with an
<span class='it'>Ow!</span>--and there he was, sitting in his chair with his
feet in the water, and water all round him!</p>

<p>He splashed to his door and looked out.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>"This is Serious," said Pooh. "I must have an
Escape."</p>

<p>So he took his largest pot of honey and escaped
with it to a broad branch of his tree, well above the
water, and then he climbed down again and escaped
with another pot .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and when the whole Escape
was finished, there was Pooh sitting on his branch,

dangling his legs, and there, beside him, were ten
pots of honey.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>Two days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his
branch, dangling his legs, and there, beside him,
were four pots of honey.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>Three days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his
branch, dangling his legs, and there beside him,
was one pot of honey.</p>

<p>Four days later, there was Pooh .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>And it was on the morning of the fourth day
that Piglet's bottle came floating past him, and with
one loud cry of "Honey!" Pooh plunged into the
water, seized the bottle, and struggled back to his
tree again.</p>

<p>"Bother!" said Pooh, as he opened it. "All
that wet for nothing. What's that bit of paper
doing?"</p>

<p>
He took it out and looked at it.</p>

<p>"It's a Missage," he said to himself, "that's what
it is. And that letter is a 'P,' and so is that, and
so is that, and 'P' means 'Pooh,' so it's a very important
Missage to me, and I can't read it. I must
find Christopher Robin or Owl or Piglet, one of
those Clever Readers who can read things, and they
will tell me what this missage means. Only I can't
swim. Bother!"</p>

<p>Then he had an idea, and I think that for a Bear
of Very Little Brain, it was a good idea. He said
to himself:</p>

<p>"If a bottle can float, then a jar can float, and
if a jar floats, I can sit on the top of it, if it's a
very big jar."</p>

<p>So he took his biggest jar, and corked it up.

"All boats have to have a name," he said, "so I
shall call mine <span class='it'>The Floating Bear</span>." And with
these words he dropped his boat into the water and
jumped in after it.</p>

<p>For a little while Pooh and <span class='it'>The Floating Bear</span>
were uncertain as to which of them was meant to
be on the top, but after trying one or two different
positions, they settled down with <span class='it'>The Floating Bear</span>
underneath and Pooh triumphantly astride it, paddling
vigorously with his feet.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>Christopher Robin lived at the very top of the
Forest. It rained, and it rained, and it rained,
but the water couldn't come up to <span class='it'>his</span> house. It

was rather jolly to look down into the valleys and
see the water all round him, but it rained so hard
that he stayed indoors most of the time, and thought
about things. Every morning he went out with his
umbrella and put a stick in the place where the water
came up to, and every next morning he went out
and couldn't see his stick any more, so he put another
stick in the place where the water came up to,
and then he walked home again, and each morning
he had a shorter way to walk than he had had the
morning before. On the morning of the fifth day
he saw the water all round him, and knew that for
the first time in his life he was on a real island.
Which was very exciting.</p>

<p>
It was on this morning that Owl came flying over
the water to say "How do you do," to his friend
Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>"I say, Owl," said Christopher Robin, "isn't this
fun? I'm on an island!"</p>

<p>"The atmospheric conditions have been very unfavourable
lately," said Owl.</p>

<p>"The what?"</p>

<p>"It has been raining," explained Owl.</p>

<p>"Yes," said Christopher Robin. "It has."</p>

<p>"The flood-level has reached an unprecedented
height."</p>

<p>"The who?"</p>

<p>"There's a lot of water about," explained Owl.</p>

<p>"Yes," said Christopher Robin, "there is."</p>

<p>"However, the prospects are rapidly becoming
more favourable. At any moment----"</p>

<p>"Have you seen Pooh?"</p>

<p>"No. At any moment----"</p>

<p>"I hope he's all right," said Christopher Robin.
"I've been wondering about him. I expect Piglet's
with him. Do you think they're all right, Owl?"</p>

<p>"I expect so. You see, at any moment----"</p>

<p>"Do go and see, Owl. Because Pooh hasn't got
very much brain, and he might do something silly,
and I do love him so, Owl. Do you see, Owl?"</p>

<p>"That's all right," said Owl. "I'll go. Back
directly." And he flew off.</p>

<p>In a little while he was back again.</p>

<p>
"Pooh isn't there," he said.</p>

<p>"Not there?"</p>

<p>"Has <span class='it'>been</span> there. He's been sitting on a branch
of his tree outside his house with nine pots of honey.
But he isn't there now."</p>

<p>"Oh, Pooh!" cried Christopher Robin. "Where
<span class='it'>are</span> you?"</p>

<p>"Here I am," said a growly voice behind him.</p>

<p>"Pooh!"</p>

<p>They rushed into each other's arms.</p>

<p>"How did you get here, Pooh?" asked Christopher
Robin, when he was ready to talk again.</p>

<p>"On my boat," said Pooh proudly. "I had a
Very Important Missage sent me in a bottle, and
owing to having got some water in my eyes, I

couldn't read it, so I brought it to you. On my
boat."</p>

<p>With these proud words he gave Christopher
Robin the missage.</p>

<p>"But it's from Piglet!" cried Christopher Robin
when he had read it.</p>

<p>"Isn't there anything about Pooh in it?" asked
Bear, looking over his shoulder.</p>

<p>Christopher Robin read the message aloud.</p>

<p>"Oh, are those 'P's' piglets? I thought they were
poohs."</p>

<p>"We must rescue him at once! I thought he
was with <span class='it'>you</span>, Pooh. Owl, could you rescue him
on your back?"</p>

<p>"I don't think so," said Owl, after grave thought.
"It is doubtful if the necessary dorsal muscles----"</p>

<p>"Then would you fly to him at <span class='it'>once</span> and say that
Rescue is Coming? And Pooh and I will think of
a Rescue and come as quick as ever we can. Oh,
don't <span class='it'>talk</span>, Owl, go on quick!" And, still thinking
of something to say, Owl flew off.</p>

<p>"Now then, Pooh," said Christopher Robin,
"where's your boat?"</p>

<p>"I ought to say," explained Pooh as they walked
down to the shore of the island, "that it isn't just
an ordinary sort of boat. Sometimes it's a Boat,
and sometimes it's more of an Accident. It all depends."</p>

<p>"Depends on what?"</p>

<p>
"On whether I'm on the top of it or underneath
it."</p>

<p>"Oh! Well, where is it?"</p>

<p>"There!" said Pooh, pointing proudly to <span class='it'>The
Floating Bear</span>.</p>

<p>It wasn't what Christopher Robin expected, and
the more he looked at it, the more he thought what
a Brave and Clever Bear Pooh was, and the more
Christopher Robin thought this, the more Pooh
looked modestly down his nose and tried to pretend
he wasn't.</p>

<p>"But it's too small for two of us," said Christopher
Robin sadly.</p>

<p>"Three of us with Piglet."</p>

<p>"That makes it smaller still. Oh, Pooh Bear,
what shall we do?"</p>

<p>And then this Bear, Pooh Bear, Winnie-the-Pooh,
F.O.P. (Friend of Piglet's), R.C. (Rabbit's
Companion), P.D. (Pole Discoverer), E.C. and
T.F. (Eeyore's Comforter and Tail-finder)--in
fact, Pooh himself--said something so clever that
Christopher Robin could only look at him with mouth
open and eyes staring, wondering if this was really
the Bear of Very Little Brain whom he had known
and loved so long.</p>

<p>"We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"?"</p>

<p>"We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"? ?"</p>

<p>
"We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"!!!!!!"</p>

<p>For suddenly Christopher Robin saw that they
might. He opened his umbrella and put it point
downwards in the water. It floated but wobbled.
Pooh got in. He was just beginning to say that it
was all right now, when he found that it wasn't, so
after a short drink which he didn't really want he
waded back to Christopher Robin. Then they both
got in together, and it wobbled no longer.</p>

<p>"I shall call this boat <span class='it'>The Brain of Pooh</span>," said
Christopher Robin, and <span class='it'>The Brain of Pooh</span> set sail
forthwith in a south-westerly direction, revolving
gracefully.</p>

<p>You can imagine Piglet's joy when at last the
ship came in sight of him. In after-years he liked
to think that he had been in Very Great Danger
during the Terrible Flood, but the only danger he

had really been in was in the last half-hour of his
imprisonment, when Owl, who had just flown up,
sat on a branch of his tree to comfort him, and told
him a very long story about an aunt who had once
laid a seagull's egg by mistake, and the story went
on and on, rather like this sentence, until Piglet who
was listening out of his window without much hope,
went to sleep quietly and naturally, slipping slowly
out of the window towards the water until he was
only hanging on by his toes, at which moment
luckily, a sudden loud squawk from Owl, which was
really part of the story, being what his aunt said,
woke the Piglet up and just gave him time to jerk

himself back into safety and say, "How interesting,
and did she?" when--well, you can imagine his joy
when at last he saw the good ship, <span class='it'>Brain of Pooh</span>
(<span class='it'>Captain</span>, C. Robin; <span class='it'>1st Mate</span>, P. Bear) coming
over the sea to rescue him. Christopher Robin and
Pooh again.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>And that is really the end of the story, and I
am very tired after that last sentence, I think I shall
stop there.</p>


<h2>CHAPTER X<br/> IN WHICH CHRISTOPHER ROBIN GIVES<br/> POOH A PARTY, AND WE SAY GOOD-BYE</h2>

<p>One day when the sun had come back over
the Forest, bringing with it the scent of
may, and all the streams of the Forest were
tinkling happily to find themselves their own pretty
shape again, and the little pools lay dreaming of
the life they had seen and the big things they had
done, and in the warmth and quiet of the Forest
the cuckoo was trying over his voice carefully and
listening to see if he liked it, and wood-pigeons were
complaining gently to themselves in their lazy comfortable
way that it was the other fellow's fault,
but it didn't matter very much; on such a day as
this Christopher Robin whistled in a special way he
had, and Owl came flying out of the Hundred Acre
Wood to see what was wanted.</p>

<p>"Owl," said Christopher Robin, "I am going to
give a party."</p>

<p>"You are, are you?" said Owl.</p>

<p>"And it's to be a special sort of party, because

it's because of what Pooh did when he did what he
did to save Piglet from the flood."</p>

<p>"Oh, that's what it's for, is it?" said Owl.</p>

<p>"Yes, so will you tell Pooh as quickly as you can,
and all the others, because it will be to-morrow."</p>

<p>"Oh, it will, will it?" said Owl, still being as
helpful as possible.</p>

<p>"So will you go and tell them, Owl?"</p>

<p>Owl tried to think of something very wise to say,
but couldn't, so he flew off to tell the others. And
the first person he told was Pooh.</p>

<p>"Pooh," he said, "Christopher Robin is giving a
party."</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh. And then seeing that Owl
expected him to say something else, he said "Will
there be those little cake things with pink sugar
icing?"</p>

<p>Owl felt that it was rather beneath him to talk
about little cake things with pink sugar icing, so he
told Pooh exactly what Christopher Robin had said,
and flew off to Eeyore.</p>

<p>"A party for Me?" thought Pooh to himself.
"How grand!" And he began to wonder if all the
other animals would know that it was a special
Pooh Party, and if Christopher Robin had told them
about <span class='it'>The Floating Bear</span> and the <span class='it'>Brain of Pooh</span>
and all the wonderful ships he had invented and
sailed on, and he began to think how awful it would
be if everybody had forgotten about it, and nobody

quite knew what the party was for; and the more
he thought like this, the more the party got muddled
in his mind, like a dream when nothing goes right.
And the dream began to sing itself over in his head
until it became a sort of song. It was an</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;'>ANXIOUS POOH SONG.</p>

<div class='poetry-container' style=''><div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line0'>3 Cheers for Pooh!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>For Who?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>For Pooh--</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>Why what did he do?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>I thought you knew;</p>
<p class='line0'>He saved his friend from a wetting!</p>
<p class='line0'>3 Cheers for Bear!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>For where?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>For Bear--</p>
<p class='line0'>He couldn't swim,</p>
<p class='line0'>But he rescued him!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>He rescued who?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>Oh, listen, do!</p>
<p class='line0'>I am talking of Pooh--</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>Of who?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>Of Pooh!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>I'm sorry I keep forgetting</span>).</p>
<p class='line0'>Well, Pooh was a Bear of Enormous Brain</p>
<p class='line0'></p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>Just say it again!</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>Of enormous brain--</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>Of enormous what?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>Well, he ate a lot,</p>
<p class='line0'>And I don't know if he could swim or not,</p>
<p class='line0'>But he managed to float</p>
<p class='line0'>On a sort of boat</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>On a sort of what?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>Well, a sort of pot--</p>
<p class='line0'>So now let's give him three hearty cheers</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>So now let's give him three hearty whiches?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>And hope he'll be with us for years and years,</p>
<p class='line0'>And grow in health and wisdom and riches!</p>
<p class='line0'>3 Cheers for Pooh!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>For who?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>For Pooh--</p>
<p class='line0'>3 Cheers for Bear!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>For where?</span>)</p>
<p class='line0'>For Bear--</p>
<p class='line0'>3 Cheers for the wonderful Winnie-the-Pooh!</p>
<p class='line0'>(<span class='it'>Just tell me, somebody</span>--WHAT DID HE DO?)</p>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<p>While this was going on inside him, Owl was
talking to Eeyore.</p>

<p>"Eeyore," said Owl, "Christopher Robin is giving
a party."</p>

<p>
"Very interesting," said Eeyore. "I suppose they
will be sending me down the odd bits which got
trodden on. Kind and Thoughtful. Not at all, don't
mention it."</p>

<p>"There is an Invitation for you."</p>

<p>"What's that like?"</p>

<p>"An Invitation!"</p>

<p>"Yes, I heard you. Who dropped it?"</p>

<p>"This isn't anything to eat, it's asking you to the
party. To-morrow."</p>

<p>Eeyore shook his head slowly.</p>

<p>"You mean Piglet. The little fellow with the
excited ears. That's Piglet. I'll tell him."</p>

<p>
"No, no!" said Owl, getting quite fussy. "It's
you!"</p>

<p>"Are you sure?"</p>

<p>"Of course I'm sure. Christopher Robin said
'All of them! Tell all of them.'"</p>

<p>"All of them, except Eeyore?"</p>

<p>"All of them," said Owl sulkily.</p>

<p>"Ah!" said Eeyore. "A mistake, no doubt,
but still, I shall come. Only don't blame <span class='it'>me</span> if it
rains."</p>

<p>But it didn't rain. Christopher Robin had made
a long table out of some long pieces of wood, and
they all sat round it. Christopher Robin sat at one
end, and Pooh sat at the other, and between them
on one side were Owl and Eeyore and Piglet, and
between them on the other side were Rabbit, and
Roo and Kanga. And all Rabbit's friends and
relations spread themselves about on the grass,
and waited hopefully in case anybody spoke to
them, or dropped anything, or asked them the
time.</p>

<p>It was the first party to which Roo had ever been,
and he was very excited. As soon as ever they had
sat down he began to talk.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Pooh!" he squeaked.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Roo!" said Pooh.</p>

<p>Roo jumped up and down in his seat for a little
while and then began again.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Piglet!" he squeaked.</p>

<p>
Piglet waved a paw at him, being too busy to
say anything.</p>

<p>"Hallo, Eeyore!" said Roo.</p>

<p>Eeyore nodded gloomily at him. "It will rain
soon, you see if it doesn't," he said.</p>

<p>Roo looked to see if it didn't, and it didn't, so he
said "Hallo, Owl!"--and Owl said "Hallo, my little
fellow," in a kindly way, and went on telling Christopher
Robin about an accident which had nearly
happened to a friend of his whom Christopher
Robin didn't know, and Kanga said to Roo, "Drink
up your milk first, dear, and talk afterwards." So
Roo, who was drinking his milk, tried to say that he
could do both at once .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and had to be patted on
the back and dried for quite a long time afterwards.</p>

<p>When they had all nearly eaten enough, Christopher
Robin banged on the table with his spoon, and
everybody stopped talking and was very silent,
except Roo who was just finishing a loud attack of
hiccups and trying to look as if it was one of Rabbit's
relations.</p>

<p>
"This party," said Christopher Robin, "is a party
because of what someone did, and we all know
who it was, and it's his party, because of what he
did, and I've got a present for him and here it is."
Then he felt about a little and whispered, "Where
is it?"</p>

<p>
While he was looking, Eeyore coughed in an
impressive way and began to speak.</p>

<p>"Friends," he said, "including oddments, it is a
great pleasure, or perhaps I had better say it has
been a pleasure so far, to see you at my party.
What I did was nothing. Any of you--except Rabbit

and Owl and Kanga--would have done the
same. Oh, and Pooh. My remarks do not, of
course, apply to Piglet and Roo, because they are
too small. Any of you would have done the same.
But it just happened to be Me. It was not, I need
hardly say, with an idea of getting what Christopher
Robin is looking for now"--and he put his front
leg to his mouth and said in a loud whisper, "Try
under the table"--"that I did what I did--but because
I feel that we should all do what we can to
help. I feel that we should all----"</p>

<p>"H--hup!" said Roo accidentally.</p>

<p>"Roo, dear!" said Kanga reproachfully.</p>

<p>"Was it me?" asked Roo, a little surprised.</p>

<p>"What's Eeyore talking about?" Piglet whispered
to Pooh.</p>

<p>"I don't know," said Pooh rather dolefully.</p>

<p>"I thought this was <span class='it'>your</span> party."</p>

<p>"I thought it was <span class='it'>once</span>. But I suppose it isn't."</p>

<p>"I'd sooner it was yours than Eeyore's," said
Piglet.</p>

<p>"So would I," said Pooh.</p>

<p>"H--hup!" said Roo again.</p>

<p>"AS--I--WAS--SAYING," said Eeyore loudly
and sternly, "as I was saying when I was interrupted
by various Loud Sounds, I feel that----"</p>

<p>"Here it is!" cried Christopher Robin excitedly.
"Pass it down to silly old Pooh. It's for Pooh."</p>

<p>"For Pooh?" said Eeyore.</p>

<p>
"Of course it is. The best bear in all the world."</p>

<p>"I might have known," said Eeyore. "After all,
one can't complain. I have my friends. Somebody
spoke to me only yesterday. And was it last week
or the week before that Rabbit bumped into me
and said 'Bother!' The Social Round. Always
something going on."</p>

<p>Nobody was listening, for they were all saying
"Open it, Pooh," "What is it, Pooh?" "I know
what it is," "No, you don't" and other helpful remarks
of this sort. And of course Pooh was opening
it as quickly as ever he could, but without cutting
the string, because you never know when a bit
of string might be Useful. At last it was undone.</p>

<p>When Pooh saw what it was, he nearly fell down,
he was so pleased. It was a Special Pencil Case.
There were pencils in it marked "B" for Bear, and
pencils marked "HB" for Helping Bear, and pencils

marked "BB" for Brave Bear. There was a knife
for sharpening the pencils, and india-rubber for
rubbing out anything which you had spelt wrong,
and a ruler for ruling lines for the words to walk
on, and inches marked on the ruler in case you
wanted to know how many inches anything was,
and Blue Pencils and Red Pencils and Green Pencils
for saying special things in blue and red and
green. And all these lovely things were in little
pockets of their own in a Special Case which shut
with a click when you clicked it. And they were
all for Pooh.</p>

<p>"Oh!" said Pooh.</p>

<p>"Oh, Pooh!" said everybody else except Eeyore.</p>

<p>"Thank-you," growled Pooh.</p>

<p>But Eeyore was saying to himself, "This writing
business. Pencils and what-not. Over-rated, if you
ask me. Silly stuff. Nothing in it."</p>

<p>Later on, when they had all said "Good-bye" and
"Thank-you" to Christopher Robin, Pooh and Piglet
walked home thoughtfully together in the golden
evening, and for a long time they were silent.</p>

<p>"When you wake up in the morning, Pooh," said
Piglet at last, "what's the first thing you say to
yourself?"</p>

<p>"What's for breakfast?" said Pooh. "What do
<span class='it'>you</span> say, Piglet?"</p>

<p>"I say, I wonder what's going to happen exciting
<span class='it'>to-day</span>?" said Piglet.</p>

<p>
Pooh nodded thoughtfully.</p>

<p>"It's the same thing," he said.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>"And what did happen?" asked Christopher
Robin.</p>

<p>"When?"</p>

<p>"Next morning."</p>

<p>"I don't know."</p>

<p>"Could you think and tell me and Pooh some
time?"</p>

<p>"If you wanted it very much."</p>

<p>"Pooh does," said Christopher Robin.</p>

<p>He gave a deep sigh, picked his bear up by the
leg and walked off to the door, trailing Winnie-the-Pooh
behind him. At the door he turned and said
"Coming to see me have my bath?"</p>

<p>"I might," I said.</p>

<p>"Was Pooh's pencil case any better than mine?"</p>

<p>
"It was just the same," I said.</p>

<p>He nodded and went out .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and in a moment
I heard Winnie-the-Pooh--<span class='it'>bump, bump, bump</span>--going
up the stairs behind him.</p>
